WELCOME TO THE WEDNESDAY,
MAY 4TH, 20 20 SECOND MEETING
OF THE ANIMAL PLANNING
COMMISSION.
WHILE WE ARE CONDUCTING THIS
MEETING IN PERSON, WE WILL
PROVIDE VIRTUAL OPPORTUNITIES
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
DURING PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PLEASE BE PATIENT IF THERE ARE
TECHNICAL ISSUES.
MR. LEONARD, WILL YOU CALL
LYBREL?
YES, MR. MILLS ABSENT
COMMISSIONER GET BRANDELL
PRESENT COMMISSIONER HERE.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM&apos;S HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER DISH TO PRESENT
COMMISSIONER LEE HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER CLARK HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER WHICH HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA?
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER LEAGUE
COMMISSIONER SOLVAY, IS THERE A
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY I OPPOSE THE MOTION
CARRIES ALREADY A LITTLE CLOSER
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WE ARE ON TO NUMBER FOUR WHICH
IS MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETING.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF APRIL 19TH?
TWENTY TWO OK.
UH, LET&apos;S SEE COMMISSIONER OLLI
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES.
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I I ANY
OPPOSED OK SO THE MOTION
CARRIES WE ARE ON TO NUMBER
FOUR WHICH REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DO YOU HAVE ANY
COUNCIL HASN&apos;T MET YET MR
LEONARD.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NO REPORT I&apos;M STILL WE
HAVE A POTENTIAL PUDI PRE
SUBMISSION FOR NEXT WEEK&apos;S
WORKING SESSION BUT IT&apos;S NOT
CONFIRMED YET SO I WILL
CERTAINLY UPDATE THE COMMISSION
ON THE CONTENT OF THAT WORKING
SESSION PROBABLY ON FRIDAY
OF THIS WEEK.
&gt;&gt; OK.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS ARE
OFFICER IS OR LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT FROM ANY
OF THE OTHER COMMITTEES RIGHT
OR C MET ON T ONE I RECUSE
MYSELF BUT THERE WAS CONTINUED
DISCUSSION FOR ONE REZONING AT
STADIUM BOULEVARD.
CAN I ASK THE NATURE OF THE
RECUSAL?
YEAH YEAH HAPPY TO.
I AM A PROPERTY STAKEHOLDER IN
THE CURRENTLY PLANNED REZONING
TERRITORY.
ALL RIGHT THANKS FOR THAT.
OK, SO WE ARE ON TO ITEM SIX
WHICH IS AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION
.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP FOR THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON THE PUBLIC
HEARING OF THIS AGENDA.
PLEASE.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WILL BE
HOLDING DEDICATED PUBLIC
HEARINGS ON TWO ONE TWO MILLER
AVENUE SITE PLAN AND THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW IF
YOU WISH TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ON OTHER
MATTERS NOW IS APPROPRIATE TIME
TO SPEAK ON THIS MATTER.
PRESS STAR NINE LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IF YOU THROUGH THE WEB
LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
FOR ANY SPEAKER PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANYBODY PRESENT
IN THE ROOM.
IS THERE ANYBODY VIRTUALLY
WAITING?
&gt;&gt; YES.
OK, COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH FIVE THREE FOUR YOU
HAVE UP TO THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS TOM STOLLBERG CALLING
FROM BOATEL IN ANN ARBOR LATER
ON TONIGHT WE&apos;RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS
I WAS THINKING ABOUT SOME ITEMS
RELATING TO THAT, I WAS
THINKING ABOUT THE PAST
ACTUALLY WAS QUITE REFLECTIVE
TODAY ABOUT MY FRIEND ETHEL
POTTS WHO PASSED AND HOW WAS IT
FIVE YEARS AGO MAYBE HER NOT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION TALKING
ABOUT THE UPCOMING MORNINGSIDE
OVERTALK PROJECT SAYING HOW IF
THE APPLICATION WAS BEING
PRESENTED TO YOU WAS TO BE
CONTEMPLATED THAT IT REQUIRED A
REVISION TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN BECAUSE IT WAS NOT A
CONFORMANCE WITH THE PLAN AND I
THINK WE WERE A BIT NAIVE AT
THE TIME IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DONE IN THAT CASE WE WOULD HAVE
BEEN A VERY SIMPLE MATTER
OF LOOKING AT THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN TO SEE HOW THAT SITE
CALLED FOR THE MIXED USE
OF INTELLIGENT PLANNING STAFF
ITSELF SAID THAT MR THE
PROPOSAL DID NOT APPLY TO
AND
THERE WAS A DESIRE BY THE
DEVELOPER TO HAVE ESSENTIALLY
AN ENTIRELY RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT WITH A SEPARATE
COMMERCIAL USE GIVEN THAT WAS
MULTIPLE PARCELS ONE PART
OF THE CORRIDOR COULD HAVE BEEN
ZONED TO SOMETHING THAT THE
COMMERCIAL USE AND THE REST
WOULD HAVE TO GO INTO A
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY.
SO WHY DIDN&apos;T A PROVISION TO
THAT PART OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN OCCURRED AS WE REQUESTED?
WELL IF IT HAD OCCURRED YOU
WOULD FIND OUT WHAT THE
CITIZENS OF THE COMMUNITY
ENVISIONED FOR THAT SITE FOR
THAT AREA IN THE CASE OF THAT
AREA, I THINK THOSE PROBABLY
WOULD BEEN CONFIRMED AS WHAT
THE COMMUNITY DID WANT TO LOOK
AT WHAT YOU WANT TO SEE ON AND
THAT&apos;S CONSISTENT WITH THAT
MAKES SENSE.
AND THEN IN DEVELOPMENT TOOK
OUT A POLICY WHICH HAS
SUGGESTED TO THE COMMUNITY THAT
NO REAL WORLD VISION HAS
CHANGED.
WE&apos;RE FINE WITH AN ENTIRELY
RESIDENTIAL PROJECT AT THAT
LOCATION AND THEN WE IF WE HAD
THEN CHANGED THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN TO MATCH THAT NEW VISION,
THEN THE PROJECT WOULD HAVE HAD
TO GO FOR A RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING AND THE MOST
RESIDENTIAL ZONING LET&apos;S SAY
WHAT WAS APPROVED FOR
BALGOWLAH.
&gt;&gt; THIRTY MORE WASN&apos;T AS MUCH
AS THEY WANTED.
&gt;&gt; SO IN ESSENCE WE DIDN&apos;T DO
THE CITY DID NOT PARTAKE IN
PROVIDING THE PLANS DECIDED IT
SHOULD HAVE BECAUSE THE
DEVELOPER WOULD NOT HAVE LIKED
EITHER OUTCOME.
BUT THAT&apos;S NOT HOW WE OPERATE
IT.
WHAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR IS
CHANGING REVISE OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHICH WE
NEED TO DO.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT THE PAST AND
LEARN FROM THE PAST AND LEARN
WHY WE&apos;VE GOT THINGS SO WRONG
OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS WITH
REGARDS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
THAT&apos;S ONE OF MULTIPLE AREAS
THAT&apos;S OCCURRED WITH REGARDS TO
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN THE PAST
FEW YEARS.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE NEED SOME
TRAINING.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S TIME TO GET THAT FROM
AN THAT&apos;S THREE MINUTES.
THANK ANYBODY ELSE?
NO.
OTHER SPEAKERS ARE INDICATING A
DESIRE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
OK, UH, SEE WE ARE ON TO ITEM
SEVEN THEN ARE THERE ANY NEW
SCHEDULED PUBLIC HEARINGS?
YES, WE HAVE TWO NEW PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE MAY
17TH.
TWENTY TWENTY TWO PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING ONE IS THREE
THIRTY DETROIT STREET SIDE PLAN
FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL THIS IS TWO EXISTING
BUILDINGS ARE PROPOSED TO BE
REMOVED AND ACCOMMODATE A FIVE
STORY BUILDING TO INCLUDE
FOURTEEN RESIDENTIAL UNITS
TWENTY THREE ON SITE PARKING
SPACES EIGHT ONE THOUSAND EIGHT
HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET
OF GROUND FLOOR RETAIL SPACE
AND PEDESTRIAN VEHICULAR ACCESS
WILL BE FROM NORTH FIFTH AVENUE
AND DETROIT STREET ZONING AS TO
A LARGE SIZE OF NINE THOUSAND
EIGHT HUNDRED AND SEVENTY NINE
SQUARE FEET POINT TO THREE
ACRES.
THE SITE IS LOCATED AT THREE OR
THREE THREE THREE TWELVE AND
THREE FOURTEEN DETROIT STREET
THE NEW PUBLIC HEARING IS
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE ANN
ARBOR CITY CODE CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TO SECTIONS FIVE POINT
SIXTEEN POINT ONE EIGHT
RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY SECTION
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT TWO A
AND B ADULT DAYCARE CENTER
CHILD CARE CENTER FIVE POINT
SIXTEEN POINT THREE OUTDOOR
RECREATION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT THREE P TRANSIT CORRIDOR
DEVELOPMENT FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT FOUR B NONPROFIT
CORPORATIONS FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
C DRIVE THRU FACILITIES FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX G GROUP
DAY CARE HOME AND SECTION FIVE
POINT NINETEEN PARKING STENNER
STANDARDS ARE BEING CONSIDERED
TO ELIMINATE MINIMUM PARKING
REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL USES
ELIMINATOR CONSOLIDATE SOME
PARKING USE CATEGORIES
ELIMINATE THE OPTION FOR OFF
SITE BICYCLE PARKING, CHANGE
THE WEIGHT LIMIT FOR VEHICLES
PARKED IN DRIVEWAYS AND
SIMPLIFY THE REQUIREMENTS FOR
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE PARKING AND
CHANGE REFORMAT INCLUDE THE
TAXI ONE DISTRICT IN THE
SPECIAL PARKING DISTRICT
REGULATIONS ALREADY WE ARE ON
TO ITEM EIGHT A WHICH IS
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND WE HAVE
THE DISCIPLINE ON 212 MILLER
AVENUE THAT WE DISCUSSED LAST
TIME FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED
CONSTRUCTION OF AN EIGHT UNIT
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING ON THIS POINT TWO ACRE
PARCEL ZONED D TO DOWNTOWN
INTERFACE THIS ITEM IS
POSTPONED FROM THE PREVIOUS
MEETING AND WE HAVE UP TO TEN
MINUTES FOR A PETITIONER
PRESENT
I CAN DEFINE WITH
MAKENNA MARRIED AND WE DID GO
BACK AT THE LAST PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING YOU ASKED US
TO LOOK AT PROVIDING BETTER
VARIOUSLY ACCESS TO THE SITE.
&gt;&gt; SO WE WENT BACK THROUGH THAT
PROCESS AND WE&apos;VE MET WITH THE
CITY WE LOOKED AT DOING SOME
VARIOUS CONFIGURATIONS OF RAMPS
AND WE DETERMINED THAT THE
LOWER LEVEL GARAGES WOULD BE
SEVERELY IMPACTED BY PLACING A
RAMP IN YOU KNOW, AS WE
DISCUSSED AT THE LAST MEETING,
THERE WERE ALSO SOME ISSUES
WITH THE CITY SIDEWALKS AND
EXISTING GRADES.
THEY&apos;RE NOT BEING VERY, VERY
COMPLIANT.
&gt;&gt; SO WE CAME UP WITH THE
SOLUTION OF PROVIDING A LIFT ON
THE OUTSIDE AND IF I CAN I WILL
SHARE MY SCREEN WITH
CAN YOU
SEE?
NOT YET?
NO.
THERE WE ABOUT NOW.
&gt;&gt; SO ORIGINALLY IT WAS A BACK
UP A STEP HERE.
THIS IS A THREE OH NINE
ASHLEIGH PROJECT WHICH IS UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
&gt;&gt; THE WORK ALONG THE RIGHT
OF WHAT IT HAS ALREADY BEEN
COMPLETED.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS AN ADA COMPLIANT
SIDEWALK ALONG HERE.
THERE&apos;S A DOOR BACK HERE WHERE
MY CURSUS WAS POINTING AND THIS
EXISTING SIDEWALK THAT WAS
INSTALLED OVER THE THREE ONLINE
ASHLEY PROJECT IS A BARRIER
FREE ADA COMPLIANT SIDEWALK.
SO WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO DO IS TO
USE THIS AREA AND GRANT A
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS BETWEEN THE
TWO PROPERTIES WHICH WOULD
ALLOW PEOPLE TO USE THE
EXISTING SIDEWALK COME UP THIS
SIDEWALK THAT&apos;S ON THE THREE ON
ASHLEY PROPERTY AND THEN ACCESS
A PROPOSAL WITH THE WE ARE
LOOKING TO PUT IN THIS AREA WE
ORIGINALLY WE HAVE THE STEPS
HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE MOVE THE STEPS OVER TO
THE EAST AND WE THINK THAT
THAT&apos;S THE BEST SOLUTION TO
PROVIDE THE BARRIER FREE ACCESS
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY UP
TO THIS PATIO AREA WHERE THE
ENTRANCE AND THE COURTYARD ARE
TO THE TO TWELVE MILLION
PROJECT AND I WILL LEAVE IT AT
THAT UNLESS TOM HAS DONE
ANYTHING HE WOULD LIKE TO ADD
NO THANK YOU CATHY.
THAT PRETTY MUCH SUMS UP WHAT
WE LOOKED AT OVER THE LAST TWO
WEEKS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR. KHAN, WOULD YOU LIKE TO
GIVE A STAFF PRESENTATION?
&gt;&gt; YES.
WHAT I WANTED TO ADD TO CATHY&apos;S
PRESENTATION IS THAT WE DID PUT
TOGETHER A MEETING AMONG A
NUMBER OF CITY STAFF MEMBERS AS
WELL AS THE PETITIONER, THE
ARCHITECT AND THE CIVIL
ENGINEER AND CITY STAFF ALL
SUPPORTED THE PROPOSED LIFT AS
A APPARENTLY VIABLE SOLUTION TO
CREATING A SAFER NON MOTORIZED
ACCESS TO THE TO THE EAST SIDE
OF THE SITE.
SO STAFF AT THIS POINT
CONTINUES TO RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THE SITE.
&gt;&gt; MY PROJECT OK, THANK YOU SO
NOW WE ARE ONTO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED TO
ONE TO MILLER SITE PLAN IF YOU
WISH TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON THIS ITEM PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF YOU THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND END ARE MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY.
FOR ANY SPEAKER PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS
FIRST IS ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ON THIS
TOPIC?
DON&apos;T SEE ANYBODY IN THE ROOM.
MR. LEONARD, ANY SPEAKERS THAT
ARE WAITING IN THE QUEUE ONLINE
SPEAKERS HAVE INDICATED A
DESIRE TO ADDRESS THE QUESTION
INSIDE.
OK, I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING THEN AND READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION.
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES THE
212 SITE PLAN INCLUSIVE A
LAYOUT AMENDMENT DATED FOR
TWENTY TWENTY TWO AS IT
COMPLIES WITH ALL APPLICABLE
LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL
ORDINANCES STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS AND IT WILL NOT
CAUSE A PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
NUISANCE MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
DISH SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
LEE DISCUSSION OF THE PROPOSED
MOTIONS
NOBODY COMMISSIONER LEE
,JUST A QUICK CLARIFICATION
QUESTION DOES
THE LATEST SITE
PLAN ACTUALLY SHOW THIS CHANGE
OR IS THAT CHANGE OK?
GOSH, I WAS LOOKING THROUGH I&apos;M
GUESSING RENDERINGS AND GET
UPDATED BUT THE CHANGES
REPRESENTATIVE COOL.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH I WOULD JUST ADD ONTO THAT
VIDEO OR CALL IN ORDER TO KEEP
THE SHORTER TIME FRAME WE DID
SUGGEST THAT THEY PROVIDE THIS
ONE PAGE LAYOUT WHICH THEY&apos;VE
THAT&apos;S BEEN ATTACHED TO THE
PACKET THE SUBSEQUENT FALL SITE
PLANS WILL BE AMENDED TO
REFLECT THAT WITH THIS REVISED
LAYOUT BUT I THINK THAT&apos;S WHAT
YOU&apos;RE REFERRING TO.
YEP, THAT&apos;S PERFECT.
THANK YOU FOR THE CLARIFICATION
.
LOOKS GOOD TO ME.
&gt;&gt; OK, I JUST WOULD LIKE TO SAY
THANK YOU TEAM DEVELOPMENT TEAM
FOR ACCOMMODATING OUR REQUEST
AND COMING UP WITH A CREATIVE
SOLUTION.
SO WE APPRECIATE THAT YOU THAT
YOU WENT THROUGH THAT EXERCISE
.
OK, ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE
ALREADY?
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD MR. LEONARD.
OK, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
.
YES, COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER LEE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER.
YES, COMMISSIONER RANDALL YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER SILVER.
YES.
THE PIPELINE IS APPROVED VERY
MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
WE ARE ON TO NINE A REGULAR
BUSINESS.
THIS IS FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVIEW THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AND PLANNING
DEVELOPMENT AND SERVICES UNIT
REVIEW THE CITY COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND A REGULAR BASIS.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
SEEKING COMMENTS ABOUT THE
CITY&apos;S COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
INCLUDING ELEMENTS THAT SHOULD
BE STUDIED FOR POSSIBLE CHANGE
OR NEW ELEMENTS THAT SHOULD BE
ADDED TO THE PLAN PRESENTATION
BY STAFF THAT WOULD BE ME.
I AM GOING TO JUST RUN THROUGH
A VERY BRIEF OVERVIEW IF I CAN
REMEMBER HOW THIS WHOLE THING
WORKS
.
&gt;&gt; OK, AS COMMISSIONER RANDALL
INDICATED THIS IS KICKING OFF A
LOOK AT THE CITY&apos;S
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN JUST A
REMINDER OF THE FRAMEWORK ABOUT
WHY WE PLAN.
WE PLAN FOR A COUPLE OF REASONS
THE MICHIGAN PLANNING ENABLING
ACT.
FIRST OF ALL THAT THE STATE
LEGISLATION THAT DIRECTS US AND
ALLOWS US TO PLAN IT&apos;S AN ACT
CODIFY THE LAWS REGARDING AND
TO PROVIDE FOR CITY PLANNING
CITY OUR LOCAL ORDINANCE, THE
CHAPTER EIGHT DIRECTS NOT ONLY
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PLANNING
COMMISSION BUT ALSO THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION SHALL
PREPARE A MASTER PLAN FOR THE
ORDERLY PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT
OF THE MUNICIPALITY AND THE
BYLAWS THE COMMISSION SHALL THE
PLANNING QUESTIONS BYLAWS SHALL
ADVISE THE CITY COUNCIL THE
PREPARATION AND CONTINUANCE
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BEING
A GUIDE FOR THE FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CITY.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS A GUIDE
DECIDED DESIGNED TO HELP US
CREATE A VISION OF WHAT WE WANT
TO BE.
HOW DO WE WANT THE CITY TO
CHANGE?
HOW DO WE WANT IT TO EVOLVE?
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS OUR VISION FOR WHAT
THE CITY LOOKS LIKE ON THE LONG
TERM HORIZON?
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF TERMS
THAT ARE REFERENCE ALREADY IN
THIS PRESENTATION AND THAT
YOU&apos;LL SEE OVER THE TIME FIRST
MASTER PLAN AND COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THE PLANNING COMMISSION
HAS ALREADY STARTED THIS
PROCESS BUT AS YOU&apos;LL NOTE FROM
THE PREVIOUS SLIDE, STATE
LEGISLATION REFERS TO A MASTER
PLAN.
MANY OF OUR DOCUMENTS ARE
ENTITLED MASTER PLAN.
HOWEVER, THE TERM MASTER MAY
EVOKE SLAVERY.
IT MAY INVOKE PATERNALISM.
IT MAY INVOKE FINALITY THAT IS
THAT SUGGESTS THAT THINGS ARE
SET IN STONE AND NOT TO EVOLVE
.
SO FOR THOSE REASONS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND STAFF
ARE MOVING TOWARDS AN EVOLUTION
OF USING THE TERM COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN RATHER THAN MASTER PLAN.
THERE&apos;S NO SPECIFIC REASON THAT
THE TERM MASTER PLAN HAS TO BE
USED AS A TERM DESPITE ITS
REFERENCE IN LEGISLATION.
BUT I WILL CONFESS THAT OVER
TWENTY PLUS YEARS OF DOING THIS
WORK IT&apos;S STILL AT TIMES
FINDING MYSELF TRIPPING UP AND
SWITCHING MY TERMINOLOGY.
BUT THAT&apos;S THE ASPIRATION I&apos;D
LIKE TO THAT I&apos;D LIKE US TO
CONSIDER MOVING FORWARD.
WHAT IS THE CITY&apos;S PLAN?
THE CITY&apos;S PLAN IN OUR CASE IS
ACTUALLY EIGHT DOCUMENTS.
SOME COMMUNITIES HAVE A SINGLE
DOCUMENT WE DON&apos;T WE HAVE EIGHT
DOCUMENTS.
THESE DOCUMENTS COLLECTIVELY
COMPRISE OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
FOR THE CITY.
THESE EIGHT DOCUMENTS
COLLECTIVELY SET THE POLICY
GUIDANCE THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION, CITY COUNCIL AND
OUR COMMUNITY UTILIZE TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT OUR VISION IS
FOR THE CITY AND THAT&apos;S A LOT
OF PAGES AS A REMINDER YOU&apos;VE
SEEN THIS BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES WE TALK ABOUT THIS
IN THE CONTEXT OF DEVELOPMENT
REVIEW RIGHT NOW WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT THIS IN THE CONTEXT
OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THIS THIS
THIS GRAPHIC THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS IS THE WIDEST
OPPORTUNITY FOR COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT.
IT&apos;S THE WIDEST OPPORTUNITY TO
SET THE TOPIC AREAS AND
ASPIRATIONS AND EXPLORATION
OF HOW WE WANT OUR COMMUNITY TO
EVOLVE.
THIS IS THE SORT OF CASTING THE
WIDEST NET TO FIGURE OUT HOW WE
CAN IDENTIFY AND PRIORITIZE
GOALS SO THAT IN THE FUTURE WE
CAN SET THOSE STRATEGIES AND
IMPLEMENT THOSE GOALS SO THAT
THE SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT THAT
WE SEE IS MEETING THE GOALS
THAT WE DESIRE AS A COMMUNITY
REVIEW OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN HAPPENS THROUGH A COUPLE
FROM A COUPLE OF OF POINTS
SINCE 2008 AND THE ADOPTION
OF THE MICHIGAN PLANNING
ENABLING ACT, THERE IS AN
EXPECTATION THAT COMMUNITIES
WILL REVIEW THE PLAN EVERY AT
LEAST EVERY FIVE YEARS AND THEN
IN YOUR BYLAWS IT ACTUALLY
ESTABLISHES A HIGHER STANDARD
TO REVIEW THE PLAN ON A ANNUAL
BASIS.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO BE
VERY BIG THINKING BROADLY
THINKING I THINK YOU&apos;VE SEEN
SOME OF THE FEEDBACK ALREADY
FROM COMMUNICATION THAT&apos;S BEEN
RECEIVED IN THE PACKET BUT THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO REALLY
WE&apos;RE NOT PRESENTING CHANGES TO
THE PLAN AT THIS POINT BUT
RATHER AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
PUBLIC TO COME TO YOU AS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND SAY THE
PLAN SHOULD BE CHANGED.
&gt;&gt; IT SHOULDN&apos;T BE CHANGED.
WHAT SHOULD IT ADDRESS?
ARE THERE IDEAS FOR WHAT THE
PROCESS SHOULD LOOK LIKE?
ARE THERE IDEAS OF WHAT THE
PRODUCT SHOULD LOOK LIKE?
HOW HOW WOULD IT BE USABLE?
HOW WOULD IT BE FUNCTIONAL?
ARE THERE PARTICULAR AREAS
OF EMPHASIS?
HOW FAR AHEAD SHOULD WE BE
LOOKING 20, 30, 50 YEARS AND IN
FACT ANYTHING?
AGAIN, THIS IS THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR REALLY THE BROADEST
OPPORTUNITY FOR FEEDBACK AND
BRAINSTORMING AS THE CITY
CONSIDERS IF TO UNDERTAKE THIS
WORK AND AND SO IN WHICH
DIRECTION THIS ISN&apos;T THE ONLY
OPPORTUNITY FOR THAT FEEDBACK
PLANNING AT A TO GOVERNMENT IS
ALWAYS AVAILABLE TO THE
COMMUNITY TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK
AT ANY TIME AS WE MOVE FORWARD
.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, NOW WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS TOPIC.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE CITY&apos;S
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IF YOU WISH
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON SITE IMPRESSED
OUR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND HER
MEETING IS NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF ALSO CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME OR BY
NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
FOR ANY SPEAKER PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS
FIRST IS ANYONE PRESENT?
I DON&apos;T SEE ANYBODY PRESENT ANY
SPEAKERS THAT WISH TO ADDRESS
US VIRTUALLY AT THIS TIME.
&gt;&gt; MR. LEONARD
YET BUT I
SUGGEST WE GIVE A MINUTE.
&gt;&gt; HMM.
&gt;&gt; WHILE WE&apos;RE WAITING WE GOT
QUITE A FEW EMAILS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT TOO.
SO I HOPE PEOPLE HAVE HAD A
CHANCE TO BE ABLE TO LOOK AT
THOSE.
MR STOLLBERG, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
.
&gt;&gt; HELLO THIS IS TOM STOLLBERG
AGAIN CALLING FROM LEVITTOWN IN
ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
ENGAGE AN OUTSIDE CONSULTANT TO
WORK ON REVISING OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ENGAGE
AN OUTSIDE CONSULTANT TO WORK
ON TRAINING OR PLANNING
COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL AND
UNDERSTANDING THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND ZONING AND OUR UDC.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION RIGHT NOW A VERY
CAPABLE PROFESSIONAL CAN DO A
GOOD JOB SCRUTINIZING THIS PLAN
AND THIS HAS BEEN OBSERVED BY
MULTIPLE PEOPLE I&apos;VE TALKED TO
OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS NOT
JUST THE CURRENT BODY BUT THE
BODY OVERALL OVER THE PAST FEW
YEARS IS NOT ADDRESSING A PRE
ZONINGS AND MASTER
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ISSUES IN A
MANNER THAT US WITH EXPERIENCE
IN THE BUSINESS AND ACCUSTOMED
TO SEEING AS ONE LAND USE
ATTORNEY AND EXPERT IN AREAS
THAT THEY&apos;RE NOT EVEN HAVING
THE RIGHT CONVERSATION.
WHAT THAT RELATES TO IS IT IN
ORDER TO COMPLY WITH THE
MICHIGAN ZONING ENABLING ACT
OF MICHIGAN PLANNING
ENABLING
ACT AND OUR OWN UDC, THERE&apos;S
CERTAIN CRITERIA WE HAVE TO
FOLLOW CERTAIN PROCESS WE HAVE
TO FOLLOW AND WE HAVE NOT BEEN
DOING WELL.
WE MAKE EVALUATIONS OF REZONING
.
WE ARE NOT ALWAYS FOLLOWING THE
CRITERIA THAT OUR UDC OR TAKING
OTHER ACTIONS.
WE&apos;RE NOT FOLLOWING THE PROCESS
THAT&apos;S OUTLINING IN THOSE OTHER
ENABLING ACT.
WE&apos;RE NOT PERMITTED TO HAVE
ZONING IF WE DON&apos;T COMPLY WITH
THE MICHIGAN ZONING ENABLING
ACT AND WE&apos;VE BEEN OUT
OF COMPLIANCE FREQUENTLY OVER
THE PAST FEW YEARS.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M VERY MUCH IN FAVOR
OF PROVIDING THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M VERY MUCH IN FAVOR
OF CITY COUNCIL PLANNING
COMMISSION AND PLANNING STAFF
BEING BETTER EDUCATED AND
BETTER AWARE OF THE PROPER
PROCESS, THE PROPERTY LOSS AND
I HOPE WE CAN GET THAT
EDUCATION FROM OUTSIDE THE CITY
BY HIRING AN EXPERT AS PART
OF THIS PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANY OF THE SPEAKERS
CALLING
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH FOUR SIX FOUR YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
HI, THIS IS LINDA BROWER.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
&gt;&gt; YES WE CAN.
OK, SO FRANKLY I AM I&apos;M
MYSTIFIED BY THIS AGENDA ITEM
BECAUSE IT&apos;S FRAMED IN TERMS
OF YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE SUPPOSED TO
LOOK AT THE AT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
EVERY YEAR AND YOU KNOW, YOU
WANT THE COMMUNITY TO WEIGH IN
IF YOU THINK IT&apos;S SOMETHING WE
NEED TO DO NOW AND IF SO, WHICH
LITTLE BITS AND PIECES OF WHAT
WE THINK SHOULD BE CHANGED.
I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND BECAUSE
STATE ENABLING LEGISLATION SAYS
FOR CERTAIN TO FULFILL CERTAIN
REQUIREMENTS WE HAVE TO
COMPLETELY REVIEW AND UPDATE
OUR MASTER PLAN.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S EVERY FIVE
YEARS WE ARE WELL BEYOND THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO I WOULD THINK THAT AS THE
CITY PLANNING LEADERS YOU COULD
THOSE WOULD BE TRYING TO PUT
SOME HEAT UNDER COUNCIL TO GET
THAT COMPLETE REVIEW REBUILDERS
AS I RECALL BEFORE THE PANDEMIC
THERE WAS A COMMISSION OR A
COMMITTEE APPOINTED TO SEEK OUT
A CONSULTANT TO SHEPHERD
THROUGH THAT PROCESS.
NOW I KNOW THAT HOW WOULD
LAZARUS START THAT PROCESS AND
THEN I DON&apos;T KNOW WHY AND THEN
THE PANDEMIC HAPPENED SO IT GOT
PUT ON THE BACK BURNER.
IT&apos;S TIME TO PUT IT ON THE
FRONT BURNER, NOT JUST UP.
LOOK AT HERE AND THERE.
LET&apos;S DO AN ANNUAL DO WE REALLY
YOU KNOW, WE NEED A COMPLETE
COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT APRIL
18 CITY COUNCIL MEETING OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR THE HONI
STATED THAT OUR COMPREHENSIVE
LAND VALUES PLAN IS BARELY OUT
OF DATE AND NEEDS TO BE
UPDATED.
THAT&apos;S A QUOTE AND HE TALKED
ABOUT HOW STATE LAW REQUIRES
THIS TO HAPPEN AND HE PROPOSED
ALLOCATING SEVERAL HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS SEVEN HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR THE
PROCESS TO REVIEW PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT AND REVISION.
SO I&apos;M HOPING AND EXPECTING
THAT BUDGET ITEM WILL BE
APPROVED AT THE MAY 16TH
COUNCIL MEETING AND YOU SHOULD
BE NOW GETTING READY TO PREPARE
TO SHEPHERD THAT PROCESS
THROUGH.
AND DURING THE SAME
PRESENTATION MR. DE HONY CALLED
OUT THREE SPECIFIC AREAS FOR
FUTURE FOCUS OVERALL ONE
DOWNTOWN UPGRADES INCLUDING
PUBLIC RESTROOMS AND I
ADDRESSED CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I WOULD ASK THAT YOU LOOK AT
WHERE WE CAN HAVE PUBLIC
RESTROOMS DOWNTOWN AND NUMBER
TWO EQUITY INCLUSION WHICH
SHOULD BE PART OF YOUR PROCESS
AS WELL AS EVERY OTHER CITY
ENGAGEMENT AND THE THIRD FOCUS
HE MENTIONED WAS ENGAGEMENT AND
HE SAID IT NEEDS TO BE ROBUST
AND INCLUSIVE OF ALL SECTORS
OF THE COMMUNITY AND SO THAT
KIND OF PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT THAT
HAS TO BE PART OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN NOT
JUST LOOKING AT PARTICULAR
STAKEHOLDERS QUOTE UNQUOTE BUT
AT BROAD SECTORS OF THE
COMMUNITY JUST AS OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MR. TONY HAS
ASKED FOR AND I&apos;M REALLY
EXPECTING THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AND MR. AS THE
PLANNING STAFF HEAD TO REALLY
PUT SOME HEAT ON THIS BECAUSE
IT&apos;S HIGH TIME, IT&apos;S WAY
OVERDUE.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT EVERYTHING
AT THE COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ANY OTHER SPEAKERS
?
ALEX LOWE, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
.
ALEX LOWE YOU CAN ADJUST THE
PLANNING COMMISSION
.
ALEX LOWE
THERE YOU GO.
NOW WE CAN HEAR YOU.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; SORRY ABOUT THAT.
UM, UH, THIS IS ALEX CALLING
FROM FENWICK AVENUE ACTUALLY
QUITE EXCITED ABOUT THE NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND OPTIONS
THAT WE HAVE FOR IT AND I JUST
THOUGHT I&apos;D EXPRESS WHAT I&apos;D
LIKE TO SEE.
BUT FIRST THING I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE
IS MORE FOCUS ON PEDESTRIAN&apos;S
BUS RIDERS.
IT THAT INCLUDES THINGS LIKE IF
YOU&apos;VE GOT A LARGE DEVELOPMENT
UNDER PROPOSAL REQUIRING CUT
THROUGH SO THAT PEOPLE CAN
ACCESS BUSWAYS AND VARIOUS
NEEDS GOES REALLY WELL WITH
WITH THE TWO ONE ZONING UH
RELATED AND TO WHICH I&apos;D LOVE
TO SEE MORE PUSH FROM ALL PARTS
OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT TO WORK
TOWARDS MORE PC ONE FASTER AND
I THINK IT MIGHT BE TIME TO
START CONSIDERING IN CERTAIN
AREAS OF THE CITY PARKING
MAXIMUMS WHEN WE GET
DESPERATELY NEED MORE DENSITY
IN THE CITY SO THAT WE CAN
ALLOW MORE PEOPLE TO UH TO LIVE
IN EITHER AND IN SOME PLACES
WHAT WE&apos;RE SEEING IS JUST HUGE
SWATHS OF PARKING OUTSIDE
OF STORES EVEN ON BLACK FRIDAY
JUST NEVER FILL UP ON 30
PERCENT, MAYBE 50 PERCENT.
SO I I&apos;D LOVE TO SEE SOME
ACTION TAKEN ON THAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS HAVE
INDICATED A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION ALREADY SO THERE
IS NO ACTION PROPOSED TONIGHT.
BUT THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
A PLANNING COMMISSION TO BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK TO
STAFF ON WHAT TO INCORPORATE
INTO FUTURE ACTION ON A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, AND I CAN MAYBE JUST
SET THE STAGE FOR THAT A LITTLE
BIT.
SO YOU HEARD SOME OF THIS
DURING PUBLIC COMMENT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR IS PROPOSING
FUNDS FOR TO THE CITY AND SOME
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE
PROCESS THAT HAS NOT BEEN
ADOPTED BUT IT WILL BE
CONSIDERED I THINK THE SECOND
MAIN MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
ACCURATELY WE WENT THROUGH AN
RFP AS WELL BACK IN TWENTY
NINETEEN I BELIEVE SO FROM A
STAFF PERSPECTIVE I JUST WANT
TO TELL YOU WHAT SORT OF MY
VISION IS MY VISION IS FOR
MOVING FORWARD.
I DO THINK IT&apos;S TIME TO SORT
OF REVISIT THAT COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN UPDATE THAT WAS STARTED IN
TWENTY NINETEEN AND GOT A BIT
SIDETRACKED BY THE PANDEMIC.
MY VISION WOULD BE TO START
WORKING ON A REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS IN THAT REGARD.
I THINK MUCH OF THE REQUESTS
FOR PROPOSALS PRIORITIES THAT
WERE ESTABLISHED PREVIOUSLY ARE
STILL RELEVANT.
A MORE CONCENTRATED FOCUS ON
CLIMATE CHANGE, A MORE
CONCENTRATED FOCUS ON EQUITY,
MORE CONCENTRATED FOCUS ON
PERHAPS AGING IN PLACE AND NOW
WE HAVE THE BENEFIT OF SOME
MORE COMMUNITY CONVERSATION
ABOUT SOME OF THESE ITEMS SUCH
AS THE ZERO PLAN AND OTHER
COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS.
&gt;&gt; SO I ENVISION FRANKLY SORT
OF DUSTING OFF THAT RFP
STARTING WITH WHERE WE ARE
TODAY WITH SOME UPDATES HAVING
AN INITIAL CONVERSATION WITH
THE MASTER PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
OF THIS GROUP TO GET IT INTO
WHAT I HOPE IS A PRETTY FINAL
FORMAT PRESENTED TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THEN FOR
FEEDBACK AND THEN IT&apos;LL SORT
OF GO AWAY FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AS THE HOPEFULLY THE
CITY THE BUDGET HOLDS.
WE CAN START WORKING ON THAT.
WE I DO ENVISION ENGAGING A
CONSULTANT TO HELP WITH THIS SO
WE CAN START THAT PROCESS
EVENTUALLY HOPEFULLY
SUCCESSFULLY SELECT A
CONSULTANT AND START THE WORK
OF THAT PROCESS.
SO THAT&apos;S WHAT I ENVISION FROM
A PROCESS PERSPECTIVE EITHER
NOW OR AT THE NEXT MEETING.
THIS WOULD BE AN OPPORTUNITY IF
THERE ARE BIG PICTURE ASPECTS
OF THAT RFP THAT YOU THINK
WOULD BE
REALLY IMPORTANT THAT
PERHAPS WEREN&apos;T ADDRESSED LAST
TIME IF ANY OF THOSE BIG TOPIC
AREAS THAT I JUST MENTIONED
SEEM TO BE GLARING BLIND SPOTS
OR SOMETHING THAT YOU WANT TO
SEE SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSED,
PROVIDE THAT TO ME NOW OR EVEN
IF YOU INDIVIDUALLY PROVIDE IT
TO ME AS CORRESPONDENCE BEFORE
THE NEXT MEETING OR EVEN AFTER
THAT I CAN TAKE THAT AND START
CONSIDERING IT IN THE CONTEXT
OF THAT RFP.
SO I&apos;LL STOP THERE AGAIN.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
PUBLIC TO SORT OF PROVIDE THEIR
FEEDBACK TO YOU IF YOU HAVE
THOUGHTS NOW THINGS THAT YOU
WOULD REALLY WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT ARE EMPHASIZED RFP I CAN
TAKE THEM NOW OR IN THE FUTURE
.
COMMISSIONER JOSH I&apos;M NOT
REALLY SURE HOW TO WORD THIS
BUT I THINK IT&apos;S DISTINCT FROM
EQUITY AND I THINK THAT IT HAS
TO DO WITH UPDATING THE
COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN WITH
A VIEW TO UNDERSTANDING UH
SORRY UH WELL WITH A VIEW TO
REPARATION I I HESITATE TO USE
THAT WORD BECAUSE IT CAN BE
JUST A RED FLAG WORD BUT I
THINK MORE THAN EQUITY IS AT
STAKE HERE IT&apos;S REALLY A WE
WANT TO HAVE A CONSCIOUSNESS
ABOUT HOW LAND USE CONTRIBUTES
TO WEALTH CREATION IN THE PAST
FOR A LIMITED GROUP OF FOLKS
AND WHAT CAN BE DONE TO ADDRESS
THE THE BUILT IN STRUCTURAL
DISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH THROUGH
LAND USE PATTERNS AND TO AS
MUCH AS WE CAN MITIGATE REDRESS
YOU KNOW, UNDO UNDO IS HARD.
WE DON&apos;T GET TO START FROM
START FROM SCRATCH.
BUT CLEARLY THIS IS A YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S A NATIONAL CONVERSATION.
MOST OF US ARE AWARE OF IT.
IT&apos;S COME UP HERE ON PLANNING
COMMISSION MANY TIMES AND I
THINK OF THAT AS BEING DISTINCT
FROM EQUITY BECAUSE IT HAS
SOMETHING MORE TO DO WITH WITH
JUSTICE.
SO ANYWAY, I KICK THAT OUT
THERE.
I THINK WE&apos;VE TALKED ABOUT THIS
BEFORE SO I JUST WANTED TO
BRING IT BACK UP.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
ARE WE ABLE TO SEE THAT RFP AT
SOME POINT SOON TO BE ABLE TO
MAKE COMMENTS?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, ON IT.
OK, I AGREE WITH WHAT
COMMISSIONER JUST WAS SAYING.
UM, TO THE EXTENT THAT WE TALK
ABOUT EQUITY AND RACIAL JUSTICE
BOTH I THINK THAT&apos;S REALLY
IMPORTANT I THINK WOULD BE GOOD
TO SEE THE RFP.
ANOTHER THOUGHT I HAD WAS
COMING OUT COMING OUT OF COVID
PUBLIC HEALTH IS SORT
OF ANOTHER UMBRELLA WHERE WE
CAN YOU KNOW THAT CLIMATE
CHANGE IMPACTS HEALTH EQUITY
IMPACTS HEALTH.
SAY THE THING ABOUT AGING IN
PLACE.
SO THAT COULD BE THAT&apos;S A FRAME
THAT I KNOW A LOT OF OTHER
CITIES LAS VEGAS JUST DID THEY
ADOPTED A NEW COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND LIKE HEALTH SORT OF IS
A FRAME FOR THAT.
I THINK IT&apos;LL JUST SORT
OF DEPEND LIKE WHAT CONSULTANT
WE PICK.
BUT THAT COULD BE SOMETHING
THAT THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE
THINK COULD WORK AS A FRAME
MAYBE THAT GETS WORKED INTO THE
RFP.
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
BUT YEAH, I KIND OF WANT TO AT
SOME POINT WE&apos;D LIKE TO SEE THE
RFP THAT WE USE LAST TIME TO BE
ABLE TO YEAH I CAN SHARE BUT
LET ME JUST GIVE A MAYBE A
QUICK HIGH LEVEL OVERVIEW
OF THE CONTENT NOW A LITTLE BIT
MORE THAN WHAT I HAD BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; SO THE THE ORIGINAL RFP
STARTED WITH A CONVERSATION
WITH THE COMMUNITY ABOUT VALUES
.
&gt;&gt; I ENVISION THIS TO BE A BIT
OF A LESS SO ABOUT WHAT ARE
WHAT ARE OUR VISIONS FOR BEING
WHERE WE WANT TO BE BUT MORE AS
A SET OF FILTERS THAT WE COULD
APPLY WHEN WE WERE FACING A
DIFFERENT A DIFFICULT
DISCUSSION THROUGH THE
EVOLUTION OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WHEN WE WERE FACING
SOMETHING THAT THERE WERE MAYBE
MULTIPLE VIEWPOINTS, A SET
OF VALUES THAT WE COULD GO TO
AND SAY HOW WOULD IT FURTHER
THESE VALUES TO PERHAPS HELP US
RESOLVE CONFLICTS IN THAT
PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; THE SECOND PIECE IS
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT THAT IT IS
GOING TO BE EXPANSIVE AND
SUCCESSFUL TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
WERE GETTING TO EVERYONE.
IT INCLUDED EVEN ASPIRING
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AS PART OF A
CONVERSATION INSTEAD OF JUST
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND THAT AND
WE SPECIFIC TO EMPHASIZE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AS YOUR
PROPOSAL SHOULD REFLECT THAT AS
A PRIMARY PROPORTION OF COST
AND WORK BECAUSE IT&apos;S SO
FOUNDATIONAL TO THE PROCESS WE
ASKED FOR WE SUGGESTED
CONSOLIDATION.
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE EIGHT PLANS.
&gt;&gt; THE ORIGINAL RFP SET A
TARGET OF A MAXIMUM OF ONE
HUNDRED PAGES.
I WILL TELL YOU THAT EVEN IN
THE PRELIMINARY CONVERSATIONS
THAT THAT WAS REALLY APPEALING
TO SOME PEOPLE.
IT WAS REALLY SCARY TO SOME
PEOPLE BECAUSE WE HAVE
THOUSANDS OF PAGES OF POLICY
AND I THINK THAT THERE&apos;S A FEAR
OF WHAT GETS LOST IN THAT.
BUT I THINK IT DOESN&apos;T HAVE TO
BE A HUNDRED PAGES BUT HAVING
HAVING TO READ EIGHT DOCUMENTS
TO ESTABLISH WHAT THE
COMMUNITY&apos;S VISION IS I THINK
IS ALSO NOT IDEAL LAND USE
IDENTIFY A FUTURE LAND USE PLAN
THAT ADDRESSES GOALS OF THE
CITY INCLUDING PROJECTED OR
DESIRED POPULATION GROWTH.
THE ORIGINAL TARGET WAS 2050
AND BEYOND TRYING TO PERHAPS
THINK ABOUT LESS OF A FUTURE
LAND USE MAP THAT IS VERY
REFERENTIAL TO OUR CURRENT
ZONING PATTERN AND MORE OF A
FUTURE LAND USE MAP THAT MIGHT
SIMILAR TO THOSE VALUES PROVIDE
A FRAMEWORK FOR HOW PROPOSALS
COULD BE EVALUATED.
I THINK THAT&apos;S A FUNDAMENTAL
COMPONENT OF OUR COMMUNITY
CONVERSATION.
DO WE WANT TO PRESERVE OUR
EXISTING LAND USE PATTERN OR DO
WE WANT TO FIND WAYS THAT IT
CAN EVOLVE?
THEN WE TALKED ABOUT FOCUS
AREAS AGING IN PLACE, PERHAPS
UPDATING OUR DESIGN GUIDELINES
THAT ARE USED IN OUR DOWNTOWN
DISTRICTS.
WE STARTED HAVING CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT APPLYING THOSE ELSEWHERE
.
&gt;&gt; HOW DOES IT INTERACT WITH
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
PLAN?
WE WILL NOT BE PLANNING ON
UNIVERSITY PROPERTY BUT HOW ARE
WE THINKING ABOUT THEIR LONG
TERM EVOLUTION?
A VERY AND THEN A VERY SPECIFIC
AND EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION
STRATEGY FOR US TO TAKE THOSE
VISIONS MOVE FORWARD.
THAT&apos;S A DISH THOSE ARE SOME
OF THOSE THINGS BEYOND THE
FOCUS ON EQUITY AND CLIMATE
CHANGE THAT I HAD PREVIOUSLY
ADDRESSED.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;LL SHARE THIS AS WELL.
BUT THAT&apos;S A MORE COMPREHENSIVE
PICTURE OF WHAT WAS IN THE
ORIGINAL RFP THAT&apos;S SUPER
HELPFUL.
WHICH BRINGS UP A COUPLE
OF OTHER QUESTIONS FOR ME.
ONE OF THE THINGS I WAS GOING
TO ASK ANYWAY IS THAT TALK
ABOUT CONSOLIDATION.
SO YOU SHOWED THE PICTURES
OF LIKE EIGHT DIFFERENT PLANS
SO WE JUST DID A TRANSPORTATION
PLAN, THE H0 PLAN.
HOW AND THEN YOU SHOULD LIKE
THE LAND USE ELEMENT.
SO LIKE WHAT PORT ARE YOU
SEEING THAT THIS IS AN UPDATE
TO THAT?
ARE WE TRYING TO ELIMINATE SOME
OF THOSE OTHER PLANES?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE GOING TO ELIMINATE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN THAT WE
JUST ADOPTED.
SO AND THERE&apos;S LIKE THE
PROPOSED PLAN FOR PARKS KIND
OF GOING TO TAKE THOSE PLANS
AND INCORPORATE THEM WITHIN
THIS DOCUMENT SO THAT YOU
WOULDN&apos;T HAVE TO READ THOSE
OTHERS TO GET A GENERAL IDEA OR
HOW ARE YOU ENVISIONING THAT?
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S A GREAT
QUESTION.
THE SOME OF THEM I THINK ARE
WELL SUITED TO CONSOLIDATION.
I WOULD SAY THINGS LIKE OUR
NATURAL FEATURES MASTER PLAN,
OUR DOWNTOWN PLAN, OUR LAND USE
PLAN AND THE SUSTAINABILITY
FRAMEWORK.
THOSE ARE ALL CITY WIDE, CITY
WIDE OR VERY FAIRLY GEOGRAPHIES
THAT I THINK WOULD BE WELL
SUITED FOR A SINGLE
CONSOLIDATION PLAN SUCH AS THE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN, THE TREE
LINE MASTER PLAN AND THE
PROPOSED PLAN THE PROPOSED PLAN
GETS UPDATED ON A SORT OF A
LITTLE BIT TIGHTER TIMELINE.
I FEEL STRONGLY ABOUT THOSE.
I WOULD SAY GENERALLY FOR
DOCUMENTS ARE STILL AN AWFUL
LOT BUT THERE MIGHT BE SOME
LOGIC TO KEEPING SOME OF THEM.
YEAH.
SO I DON&apos;T I&apos;M NOT I DON&apos;T
ENVISION ALL OF THEM BEING
CONSOLIDATED BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW
THAT I WOULD START OFF WITH
THAT ASSUMPTION MIGHT BE WORTH
AT LEAST THE EXPLANATION ABOUT
HOW FAR COULD WE GO.
AND THE LAST THING I THINK
TALKS ABOUT VALUES.
THEY TALK ABOUT FOCUS AREAS AND
I FEEL LIKE THEY COULD BE ON
THE SAME SIDE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE NEED TO
ABSOLUTELY SET FOCUS AREAS
INITIALLY BUT IF IT I&apos;M
ASSUMING THAT THE THE
CONSULTANT WOULD SORT OF GO
THROUGH LIKE WE ALL SITTING AT
THIS TABLE ARE SAYING EQUITY
AND JUSTICE HAS TO BE A FOCUS
AREA WHEN WE GET OUT INTO THE
COMMUNITY, WHEN THE CONSULTANT
GETS OUT INTO THE COMMUNITY,
MAYBE THEY&apos;LL HEAR SOMETHING
VASTLY DIFFERENT.
I MEAN THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE SOME
SORT OF LIKE DISCUSSION THAT IF
WE SAY THERE&apos;S A CERTAIN FOCUS
AREAS THAT WE WANT AND THAT&apos;S
NOT WHAT COMES OUT IN COMMUNITY
CONVERSATIONS THERE WILL BE
ADJUSTMENTS.
I CAN&apos;T IMAGINE THAT THE ONES
THAT WE&apos;VE SAID WOULD NOT BE.
BUT YOU KNOW, I ALSO DON&apos;T WANT
TO BE PREMATURE IN SAYING LIKE
BEFORE WE EVEN HAVE COMMUNITY
CONVERSATIONS LIKE WE&apos;VE
DECIDED THAT THESE THE FOCUS
AREAS IF THAT MAKES ANY SENSE I
KNOW THINK WE&apos;RE DOING THAT BUT
THAT&apos;S THAT THAT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PLAN I THINK HAS TO
BE SORT OF LIKE DESIGN DESIGNED
TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT INPUT IS
ALL RECIPROCAL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I MEAN I THINK THAT&apos;S
I&apos;M NOT WORRIED ABOUT THAT
PERSON.
FOR EXAMPLE, OUR CITY COUNCIL
IS SET SOME POLICY DIRECTIONS.
YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S FOR EXAMPLE
CLIMATE OR CARBON NEUTRALITY IS
SOMETHING THAT THIS BOARD
STRUGGLES WITH ON A PROJECT BY
PROJECT BASIS.
OUR LEGISLATIVE BODY HAS
DECLARED THAT AS A GOAL
AND SO
INCLUDING THAT AS A FOCUS AREA
SEEMS PRETTY COMFORTABLE TO ME
JUST AS AN EQUITY SEEMS LIKE A
FAIRLY COMFORTABLE COMPONENT TO
PUT IN THERE AS A PRIORITY
PERHAPS THINGS LIKE YOU KNOW I
MEAN LIKE WHEN YOU&apos;RE WHEN
YOU&apos;RE POSING THAT QUESTION I
THINK ABOUT AGING IN PLACE.
WE HAVE AN AGING POPULATION
LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE.
BUT A LOT OF THE THINGS THAT
ARE GOOD FOR AGING IN PLACE ARE
GOOD FOR EVERYBODY ACROSS THE
COMMUNITY.
SO MAYBE IT DOESN&apos;T NEED TO BE
FRAMED IN THAT WAY.
SO BUT I I ALSO THINK THAT
THERE&apos;S SOME LOGIC IN TRYING TO
BE SPECIFIC AND WHAT WE&apos;RE
ASKING FOR SO THAT WE GET THE
BEST PARTNERSHIP AND ASSISTANCE
IN GETTING THERE.
SO I THINK TO KEEP IT TOO OPEN
TO SAY LET&apos;S WAIT TILL THE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PROCESS IS
RESOLVED BEFORE WE KNOW WHAT
THOSE FOCUS AREAS ARE THAT
THAT&apos;S PROBABLY TOO LATE.
BUT I HEAR WHAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING
WE NEED TO BUILD IN THE ABILITY
TO SORT OF RESET AND MAKE SURE
THAT THEY ARE REFLECTIVE
OF WHAT WE&apos;RE HEARING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I TOTALLY I TOTALLY
AGREE WITH ALL THAT.
I THINK JUST YOU KNOW, I THINK
THERE&apos;S THIS RHETORIC THAT&apos;S
LIKE WELL WHY SHOULD I
PARTICIPATE?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ALREADY DECIDED.
YEAH.
YEAH, COMMISSIONER SAUV HYPER
LIKE I GUESS MAYBE THIS JUST A
VERY SPECIFIC THOUGHT BUT LIKE
THROUGH THE PAST FEW YEARS
WE&apos;VE LEARNED ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF ENGAGEMENT THAT
MAY NOT HAVE THAT WASN&apos;T IN
THEIR FEET TO THAT DEGREE
BEFORE.
AND SO MAKING SURE WHEN WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT, LOOKING AT ACCESS
TO TECHNOLOGY ACCESS MULTIPLE
TIMES SKILLS BUT YOU KNOW,
ACCESS VIRTUALLY IN PERSON AND
MAKING SURE THERE&apos;S LIKE WE
JUST HAVE MORE TOOLS TO ACCESS
POINTS.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK THAT&apos;S JUST
SOMETHING YOU LIKE TO REINFORCE
WHICH MIGHT BE ANOTHER WAY TO
ENGAGE.
I THINK HOW WE DISCUSSED IN THE
PREVIOUS EFFORT AROUND THIS OUR
CURRENT AND ASPIRING
COMMUNITIES WHICH I WAS ALSO
LIKE AN INTERESTING ONE BUT YOU
KNOW, WE&apos;VE GOT THAT COMMUTER
SEGMENT OF OUR POPULATION, THE
STUDENT SEGMENT OF THE
POPULATION AND THE THOSE ARE
AREAS OUTSIDE OF KNOW THE
ESTABLISHED POPULATION THAT
HAVE A HUGE IMPACT AND SHOULD
HAVE A SAY AND PROBABLY HAVE A
DESIRE AND CAN HAVE POINTS TO
THAT SHOULD BE VOICE AND LISTEN
TO SO THOSE ARE A COUPLE OF MY
ADDITIONAL THOUGHTS RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; OH WE DID TALK MAYBE LIKE
SIX MONTHS AGO ABOUT MAYBE
DOING A CALL OR AT LEAST AT
THIS TABLE LIKE LOOKING THROUGH
LIKE IS THAT PART LIKE PRIOR TO
THIS PROCESS SOMETHING THAT WE
WERE LOOKING TO DO OR LIKE
OFFER UP TO THE CONSULTANT AS A
FIRST PASS FROM OUR END?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
I MEAN I THINK I THINK WE DO IN
THAT REGARD WOULD HELP THAT
PROCESS.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE&apos;VE
TALKED ABOUT.
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT I WISH I
WOULD HAVE GOTTEN DONE ALREADY
BUT ANY PROGRESS WE MAKE ON
THAT EVEN IF IT&apos;S NOT COMPLETE?
I THINK HELPED SET THE STAGE IF
ONLY SORT OF AN AUDIT ABOUT THE
GOALS OF THE STRATEGIES OF THE
PREVIOUS DOCUMENTS AND WHAT IS
OUR ASSESSMENT ON THOSE YOU
KNOW, AN EXAMPLE OF ONE
OF THOSE AS YOU&apos;LL SEE IN THE
WORK PROGRAM IS REVISIT
PREMIUM&apos;S TO ENCOURAGE HOUSING
IN THE D WANANDI TO DISTRICTS.
SO THAT OCCURRED IN 2009 THAT
IS A SPECIFIC STRATEGY.
IT WAS ACCOMPLISHED FIVE YEARS
AGO.
I WOULD HAVE SAID CHECK WE
DON&apos;T NEED TO DO THAT BUT HERE
WE ARE NOW REVISITING THAT IT&apos;S
STILL REFLECTIVE OF THAT SAME
STRATEGY.
SO BUT YEAH, THE SHORT ANSWER
IS I THINK THAT WOULD BE WORK
THAT WOULD BE WELL DONE.
WELL TIME TO BE DOING NOW AS
WE&apos;RE GEARING UP TO A
CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH A
CONSULTANT SAY HEY, HERE&apos;S SOME
HOMEWORK ALREADY TO SET THE
STAGE FOR WHERE WE&apos;VE BEEN.
BUT YES, ALSO GOT A LOT
OF OTHER STUFF GOING ON SO IS
DO YOU THINK THAT DO YOU
IMAGINE THAT BEING WITH THE
BOARD PART OF THIS COMMITTEE
LIKE SURPRISES START WITH THE
MASTER PLAN COMMITTEE.
OK, AND THEN FOR TIMELINE I&apos;M A
ASSUMING MEAN THAT WE&apos;RE TRYING
TO GET TO A CONTRACT STARTING
WITH THE FISCAL YEAR OR YEAH.
&gt;&gt; IF THE FUNDS ARE AWARDED
THEY WOULDN&apos;T BE AVAILABLE
UNTIL JULY.
SO NOW SEEMS LIKE THE RIGHT
TIME TO START SORT OF RFP.
I DON&apos;T KNOW EXACTLY WHEN THAT
PROCUREMENT PROCESS WILL START
OFF.
WE&apos;LL START IT ACTUALLY IN JULY
BUT THE TIME SEEMS RIGHT TO
START GETTING ORGANIZED SO THAT
ONCE THAT HITS WE&apos;RE EITHER
WELL UNDERWAY OR MAYBE EVEN
CLOSE TO SELECTION PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, YEAH.
I DIDN&apos;T KNOW IF YOU DON&apos;T WANT
TO ACTUALLY ANNOUNCE RFP UNTIL
THE MONEY IS OFFICIALLY IN
PERSON.
IT HASN&apos;T YET YEAH.
UNTIL JULY SO YEAH I GUESS
THAT&apos;S KIND OF THE TIMING
OF LIKE ARE WE READY TO SIGN
FROM THE RFP IN JULY OR ARE WE
READY TO RELEASE THE RFP FOR
APPLICATIONS IN JULY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH WE COULD PROBABLY
RELEASE IT BEFORE BUT EVEN
STARTING NOW I ANTICIPATE THAT
THERE&apos;LL BE SOME TIME WE&apos;RE
GOING TO WANT TO PROVIDE SOME
TIME TO RESPOND.
IT&apos;S TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU
KNOW, WE&apos;RE GETTING THE
INFORMATION WE WANT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
AND I GUESS TO THAT COMMITTEE
SINCE WE HAVE A LOT
OF COMMISSIONER TO LIKE AND I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF WE&apos;VE ADDRESSED
THAT RULE IN THIS FIRST YEAR
SINCE IT WAS KIND OF LIKE A
FLOATING THING SINCE WE WE
DIDN&apos;T KNOW HOW ACTIVE IT WAS
GOING TO BE.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT IT LIKE IF
ANYBODY WANTED TO JOIN OH IN
THE INTERIM RIGHT NOW THAT LIKE
ISN&apos;T LIKE OFFICIALLY
DESIGNATED TO THAT COMMITTEE.
YEAH.
TYPICALLY WE DO COMMITTEE
APPOINTMENTS IN JULY BUT MAYBE
IT MAKES SENSE TO BRING ABOUT
THE WORK PROGRAM NEXT MEETING
AND SINCE TIMES RIGHT.
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE WORK
PARTICULARLY DONE ON THIS PLAN
COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; OK SO YEAH WE WE WE WOULD
WAIT TILL JULY TYPICALLY BUT
SINCE WE GOT A HEAD START AND
NEW COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
MAYBE OR AT LEAST FOR THIS ONE
OK THAT&apos;S IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK ANYBODY ELSE.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER ABRAMS,
CAN YOU REMIND US WHO&apos;S ON THAT
COMMITTEE WAS AFRAID YOU WERE
GOING TO ASK THAT WHILE YOU&apos;RE
PULLING THAT UP.
I ALSO JUST HAVE A QUESTION
ABOUT THE TIMELINE, THE PROCESS
THAT YOU DESCRIBED SOUNDS VERY
LENGTHY AND I&apos;M WONDERING HOW
WE BALANCE TAKING OUR TIME AND
LEAVING ENOUGH TIME FOR THE
RIGHT AMOUNT OF ENGAGEMENT AND
YOU KNOW, CLOSE CAREFUL
THOUGHTFULNESS WITH A KIND
OF URGENCY THAT I THINK WE FEEL
AND THE COMMUNITY FEELS TO DO
THIS.
AND I&apos;M ALSO THINKING ABOUT
2030 AND IT BEING TWENTY TWENTY
TWO OR MAYBE WE COULD JUST TALK
ABOUT AN ESTIMATE OF THE
PROCESS YOU DESCRIBED AND HOW
LONG IT MIGHT TAKE.
&gt;&gt; IT SOUNDED TO ME LIKE COULD
EASILY TAKE TO TWO AND A HALF
YEARS OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND SO THEN WOULD WE BE WITH
CITY COUNCIL B ADOPTING A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND LIKE
TWENTY TWENTY SIX OR TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE FOR THINGS WHICH
WERE MEANT TO IMPACT OUR YOU
KNOW TWENTY THIRTY GOALS AMONG
OTHER THINGS.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH I, I DO THINK IT&apos;S A
MULTIYEAR EFFORT.
&gt;&gt; SURE I KNOW I KNOW I JUST
WONDERED IF WE COULD JUST AND I
THINK REALISTICALLY ABOUT HOW
TO ABOUT THE TIMELINE I DON&apos;T
MEAN TO RUSH US BUT MAYBE JUST
TO HAVE EXPECTATIONS SHARED
EXPECTATIONS I I THINK THAT
PART OF THAT IS PROBABLY PART
THAT WE&apos;RE MORE SUCCESSFUL IN
THAT PROBABLY BY MORE
ACCURATELY PINPOINTING THE
FOCUS AREAS AT THE OUTSET.
SO AS WE&apos;RE ENGAGING WITH THE
CONSULTANT, WE&apos;RE PUTTING
TOGETHER THAT WORK PROGRAM WE
HAVE A BETTER SENSE OF WHAT
WHAT WE NEED TO DO AND THAT
GIVES US A BETTER ABILITY TO
PROBABLY STICK WITH THAT TIME
FRAME AND BE FAITHFUL TO IT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK TO THE EXTENT WE
LEAVE MORE OF THAT EVOLUTION
NOT CONTENT BUT EVEN LIKE SORT
OF CATEGORIES TOO WE WILL
DECIDE THAT AFTER PHASE ONE
THAT PROBABLY INCREASES
INCREASES THE CHANCES OF MORE
TIME FOR SCALE.
I THINK THE LAST RFP WAS
PROPOSING ABOUT A YEAR AND NINE
MONTH PROCESS WHICH I THOUGHT
MIGHT HAVE BEEN OPTIMISTIC SO
THE CURRENT PLAN REVIEW
COMMITTEE IS COMMISSIONERS
CLARK HAMMERSCHMIDT, LEE AND
SAUV.
THANK YOU.
UM, IS THERE UH WHAT WOULD BE
THE STANDARD PRACTICE IN TERMS
OF UM TRY TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
SAY THIS SO THERE WAS A
CONSULTANT WHO HAD BEEN ENGAGED
AND THAT CONTRACT WAS
TERMINATED DUE TO COVID?
&gt;&gt; NO, IT WAS NEVER EXECUTED.
NEVER EXECUTED.
&gt;&gt; WE UH WE HAD UM SO AS A
REMINDER TO NEW COMMISSIONERS
WHEN WE STARTED THIS PROCESS IN
TWENTY NINETEEN WE ACTUALLY
FORMED SORT OF AN ADVISORY
COMMITTEE EACH WARD NOMINATED A
RESIDENT FROM THEIR WARD AS
WELL AS THE MAYOR AND THEN WE
HAD SOME CITY STAFF AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; WE WENT THROUGH THAT GROUP
DID THE REVIEW OF PROPOSALS
SHORT LISTED THEM FOR
INTERVIEWS, CONDUCTED THE
INTERVIEWS AND THEN CAME TO A
RECOMMENDATION THAT WAS NEVER
THAT WAS NEVER APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL.
SO THAT WAS IT.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANY POSSIBILITY
OF HAVING THAT TIME AND LABOR
BE PART OF THIS PROCESS OR ARE
WE I MEAN STARTING FROM SCRATCH
REQUIRED?
&gt;&gt; UH, I DON&apos;T THINK WE&apos;RE
STARTING FROM SCRATCH BECAUSE
WE HAVE THAT RFP IS A GOOD
FOUNDATION ALREADY.
I THINK THAT IT DOES WARRANT
GOING THROUGH THE PROCESS
AGAIN, PART OF THAT IS FIRMS
DECIDE WHAT THEIR CAPACITY IS
TIMING WISE AND WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE SOME MINOR ADJUSTMENTS TO
THAT RFP.
WE HAVE THE TWO ZERO PLAN NOW.
WE DIDN&apos;T HAVE THAT BEFORE
PREVIOUSLY WE SAID CLIMATE
CHANGE
WOULD BE MORE FRONT AND
CENTER.
NOW WE HAVE SOME MORE SPECIFIC
RECOMMENDATIONS.
I THINK MORE OF THE QUESTIONS
NOW IS HOW DO WE WANT TO PULL
THAT DOCUMENT INTO OUR LAND USE
FRAMEWORK?
&gt;&gt; SO SO THE SHORT OF IT IS I
DON&apos;T THINK THAT THERE&apos;S MUCH
RECYCLING THAT WORK BUT AT THE
SAME TIME I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT WE
NEED TO GO THROUGH THAT SAME
PROCESS AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER, HOW MUCH DO
YOU MAKE THE SAME PROCESS?
YOU MEAN WITH THE THE
COMMUNITY?
CORRECT.
OKAY, I WAS GOING TO ASK ABOUT
IT.
SO YOU&apos;RE ENVISIONING THE THE
SELECTION PROCESS IS GOING TO
BE COMPRISED OF STAFF?
I DON&apos;T KNOW YET BUT UM
PROBABLY SOMETHING DIFFERENT
THAN IT WAS BEFORE THAT WAS IT
WAS A REALLY ROBUST PROCESS.
WE GOT A LOT OF FEEDBACK.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WAS
INTERESTING WITH THAT IS
BECAUSE FOR WHATEVER REASON
THAT CONSTRUCTION WE STARTED
HAVING A LOT OF DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT CONTENT AND WHAT MIGHT
END UP IN THE PLANNING PROCESS
VERSUS SORT OF JUST GETTING TO
THAT PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T KNOW YOU KNOW,
AGAIN VERY, VERY INTERESTING
CONVERSATIONS, REALLY
COMPELLING PASSIONATE
CONVERSATIONS BUT IT WASN&apos;T
NECESSARILY ALWAYS THE BEST
PATH TOWARDS GETTING US INTO
THE WORK OF ACTUALLY TURNING
THE SWITCH AND STARTING TO
ACTUALLY INCORPORATE SOME
OF THOSE IDEAS OR TEST THEM SO
SO IT&apos;D PROBABLY SOME
COMBINATION I&apos;M GUESSING
OF COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF.
YEAH, ULTIMATELY IT&apos;S A CITY
COUNCIL AWARDS THE CONTRACT BUT
I HAVEN&apos;T I DON&apos;T HAVE IT SORT
OF EXACTLY MAPPED OUT YET BUT
NOT THE SAME PROCESS AS LAST
TIME.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M PRETTY I WOULDN&apos;T
RECOMMEND THAT IT MAKES SENSE
TO ME COMMISSIONER REALLY I
THANK YOU UM I KIND OF VOICING
EVERYONE ELSE&apos;S DISCUSSIONS.
I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT FOR US
TO CLARIFY THE DELIVERABLE AND
TIMELINE OF THINGS JUST TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE A PRETTY BROAD
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT OUR
EXPECTATIONS OF TIMING AS WELL
AS DELIVERABLE ARE RECOMBINING
.
ARE WE REDUCING?
ARE WE IN HANSING SOME OF THESE
DIFFERENT PLANS?
&gt;&gt; I KNOW EACH ONE OF THESE
HAVE HAD INCREDIBLE AMOUNTS
OF FEEDBACK AND THE THOUGHT
OF COMBINING WOULD BE YOU KNOW,
HAVE TO BE A PRETTY RIGOROUS
PROCESS.
MY OTHER THOUGHTS I KNOW THERE
WERE SOME COMMENTS THAT CAME IN
ABOUT THE LAND USE PLAN BEING A
PRETTY CRITICAL ONE FOR US TO
TACKLE.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
I ALSO NATURAL FEATURES JUST
BECAUSE I KNOW WE&apos;VE COME SUCH
A LONG WAY WITH STORMWATER AS
WELL ALSO BEEN LOOKING AT OTHER
CITIES COMPREHENSIVE PLANS,
BEST PRACTICES.
AN INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN IS I
THINK SOMETHING THAT WE MIGHT
WANT TO ALSO CONSIDER AS WE
MOVE FORWARD IDENTIFYING AND
RESOLVING CONFLICTS THAT MAY
EXIST BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT
PLANS JUST GIVEN THE KIND
OF TEMPORAL NATURE OF HOW LONG
IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, THE DISTANCE
BETWEEN AND I THINK WE&apos;LL BE
KIND OF CRITICAL.
BUT YOU KNOW, OVERALL THE
OVERARCHING POINT THAT I WANT
TO HOPEFULLY WE CAN GET IS
CLARIFYING A DELIVERABLE AND
TIMELINE OF THIS OF WHAT WE&apos;RE
LOOKING TO ACHIEVE SO THAT
WE&apos;RE ALL TALKING KIND OF FROM
THE SAME VIEWPOINT.
BUT THESE ARE SOME OF THE
HALLMARKS OR I GUESS TIME
FRAMES THAT WE NEED TO HIT.
SO THOSE ARE THE TWO ITEMS
DELIVERABLE TIMELINE.
LET&apos;S CLARIFY THOSE AND THEN
OBVIOUSLY THE VALUES PIECE IS
SO INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT
TRANSPARENCY, INCLUSIVE CITY,
SOCIAL JUSTICE ALL OF THOSE
THINGS ARE GOING TO BE
OBVIOUSLY KEY AS WE MOVE
FORWARD AND THE ABILITY I LOVE
TO COMMENT ABOUT TECHNOLOGY AND
HOW FAR WE&apos;VE COME IN THE WAY
THAT PEOPLE PROVIDE COMMENT.
SO I THINK WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BE MORE
INCLUSIVE THAN EVER BUT JUST
WANTED TO BRING UP AT LEAST
THESE POINTS OF RESOLVE
CONFLICTS THAT EXIST WITHIN
PLANS.
AND LET&apos;S CLARIFY WHAT ARE WE
DO LIKE WHAT&apos;S THE DELIVERABLE
OF LIKE WHAT&apos;S THE COMPOSITION
OF THAT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
GOING TO LOOK LIKE AT THE ONSET
WITHOUT COMPROMISING ALL OF THE
UNDERLYING WORK THAT&apos;S BEEN
DONE TO GET US TO WHERE WE ARE
.
SO JUST GETTING A CLEARER SENSE
OF THAT I THINK WILL HELP A LOT
OF PEOPLE TO CONCEPTUALIZE WHAT
THIS PROCESS WILL LOOK LIKE.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE I WOULD JUST LIKE
TO GET A LITTLE BIT MORE
CLARIFICATION.
I&apos;M NOT ON THE COMMITTEE.
I&apos;M NOT ASKING TO THE COMMITTEE
FOR THIS BUT I&apos;M JUST WONDERING
HOW YOU SEE THE INTERFACE
BETWEEN THE LARGER PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE SUBCOMMITTEE
.
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT&apos;S GOING
TO SORT OF COME UP IN A
SOMEWHAT REGULAR BASIS IN OUR
WORKING SESSIONS OR DO YOU SEE
THEM BEING PRETTY SEPARATE?
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS BECAUSE I
DEFINITELY LIKE TO BE ABLE TO
WEIGH IN EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE
BUT I DON&apos;T HAVE THE BANDWIDTH
FOR THERE TO BE ABLE TO BE ON
IT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I DON&apos;T KNOW.
IT COULD HAPPEN A LOT
OF DIFFERENT WAYS INITIALLY I
THINK THAT I WOULD ENVISION
THAT THE SUBCOMMITTEE WOULD
HELP AS LIKE ORACY DOES THEY
HELP STAFF PRESENT A BETTER
PRODUCT TO THE FULL COMMISSION
SO THE COMMITTEE WOULDN&apos;T HAVE
ANY ACTION?
THEY WOULD THEY WOULD BE AN
EXTENSION OF THE STAFF IN THAT
CASE SORT OF PLAY THAT
INTERLOPER ROLE BETWEEN WHAT WE
PUT ON PAPER.
AND I&apos;M SAYING I THINK THE
COMMISSION IS GOING TO BE MORE
RESPON TO THIS APPROACH AND SO
THEN THAT WOULD COME TO THE
FULL COMMISSION.
I WOULD ENVISION AT SOME POINT
I THINK IT WOULD BE GREAT TO
HAVE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
SAY AND TAKE ACTION TO SAY YES,
THIS RFP REPRESENTS OUR DESIRE
FOR HOW THIS PROCESS SHOULD
LOOK AND THE PRODUCT WE WANT
AND THE AREAS OF FOCUS.
I THINK THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT&apos;S
AN IMPORTANT ENDORSEMENT
BECAUSE YOU ARE THE BODY THAT
ULTIMATELY HAS TO CREATE THIS
DOCUMENT AND PRESENT IT TO THE
CITY COUNCIL.
THEN THE NEXT PHASE OF THAT
WOULD BE DETERMINING HOW WE
WANT TO INVOLVE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WITH SELECTION.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WON&apos;T
VOTE ON THAT CONTRACT BUT I
THINK WE WANT TO FIGURE OUT HOW
TO INVOLVE THE EITHER THE
COMMITTEE A FEW MEMBERS IN THAT
PROCESS SO THAT ONCE THAT DOES
GO TO CITY COUNCIL SIMILARLY
THE PLANNING COMMISSION HAS HAD
A VOICE IN SAYING YES, THIS
SEEMS LIKE THE RIGHT PARTNER
FOR US TO UNDERTAKE.
THIS IS THE RIGHT SCOPE.
THESE ARE THE ADJUSTMENTS WE
WOULD SUGGEST.
SO THAT&apos;S PRESENTED TO CITY
COUNCIL AND THEN IF THAT IS
ENACTED THEN THEN IT&apos;S PROBABLY
THE NEXT PHASE IS WHAT&apos;S IN
THAT WORK PLAN.
WHAT GROUPS ARE WE CREATING?
ARE CREATING A STEERING
COMMITTEE?
ARE WE CREATING MANY STEERING
ARE WE CREATING FOCUS GROUPS ON
COMMITTEE?
THE LAST PLAN HAD A LITTLE BIT
ARE WE CREATING FOCUS GROUPS ON
OF BOTH.
THE LAST PLAN HAD A LITTLE BIT
IT HAD SOME SORT OF BY
OF BOTH.
DISCIPLINE AREA FOCUS GROUPS
IT HAD SOME SORT OF BY
BUT THEN IT ALSO HAD SOME SORT
DISCIPLINE AREA FOCUS GROUPS
OF STEERING COMMITTEES THAT
BUT THEN IT ALSO HAD SOME SORT
WERE SORT OVERTOP OF THOSE
OF STEERING COMMITTEES THAT
FOCUS GROUPS TRYING TO TIE SOME
WERE SORT OVERTOP OF THOSE
OF THOSE THINGS TOGETHER.
FOCUS GROUPS TRYING TO TIE SOME
SO AND THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE THINGS
OF THOSE THINGS TOGETHER.
THAT YOU I THINK THAT A
SO AND THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE THINGS
CONSULTANT CAN HELP BRING US
THAT YOU I THINK THAT A
SOME EXPERTIZE IN HOW THAT IS
CONSULTANT CAN HELP BRING US
GONE AND THEIR COMMUNITIES AND
SOME EXPERTIZE IN HOW THAT IS
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE REALLY
GONE AND THEIR COMMUNITIES AND
GREAT BENEFIT BESIDES
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE REALLY
HORSEPOWER IS HEY, THEY&apos;RE
GREAT BENEFIT BESIDES
DOING THIS PLANNING PROCESS AND
HORSEPOWER IS HEY, THEY&apos;RE
MULTIPLE COMMUNITIES ON A
DOING THIS PLANNING PROCESS AND
FREQUENT BASIS WHERE THEY GOT
MULTIPLE COMMUNITIES ON A
SEVERAL GOING AT A TIME THEY
FREQUENT BASIS WHERE THEY GOT
CAN BRING THAT EXPERTIZE AND
SEVERAL GOING AT A TIME THEY
KNOWLEDGE ABOUT HOW THOSE
CAN BRING THAT EXPERTIZE AND
MEETING ENGAGEMENTS WERE
KNOWLEDGE ABOUT HOW THOSE
SUCCESSFUL OR NOT SUCCESSFUL
MEETING ENGAGEMENTS WERE
AND HOW WE CAN IMPROVE UPON
SUCCESSFUL OR NOT SUCCESSFUL
THEM.
AND HOW WE CAN IMPROVE UPON
OK, THAT&apos;S HELPFUL.
THEM.
THANK YOU.
OK, THAT&apos;S HELPFUL.
I GUESS ONE OTHER THING I&apos;D
THANK YOU.
LIKE TO SAY TO IS THE WHOLE
I GUESS ONE OTHER THING I&apos;D
IDEA OF ASPIRING PEOPLE IN ANN
LIKE TO SAY TO IS THE WHOLE
ARBOR AND I HAVE TEENAGERS AND
IDEA OF ASPIRING PEOPLE IN ANN
I JUST NOTICED THAT THEIR VIEWS
ARBOR AND I HAVE TEENAGERS AND
ARE REALLY DIFFERENT THAN A LOT
I JUST NOTICED THAT THEIR VIEWS
OF THE THINGS THAT WE HEAR HERE
ARE REALLY DIFFERENT THAN A LOT
FOR A PUBLIC COMMENT.
OF THE THINGS THAT WE HEAR HERE
AND YOU KNOW, THEY&apos;RE THE
FOR A PUBLIC COMMENT.
FUTURE.
AND YOU KNOW, THEY&apos;RE THE
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LOVE IT IF MY KIDS
FUTURE.
COULD AFFORD TO LIVE HERE.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LOVE IT IF MY KIDS
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THEY WILL BE
COULD AFFORD TO LIVE HERE.
ABLE TO BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THEY WILL BE
INTERESTING TO ENGAGE LIKE SOME
ABLE TO BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE
PEOPLE IN OUR LOCAL HIGH
INTERESTING TO ENGAGE LIKE SOME
SCHOOLS OR THINGS LIKE THAT
PEOPLE IN OUR LOCAL HIGH
ABOUT LIKE WHAT THEY THIS IS
SCHOOLS OR THINGS LIKE THAT
REALLY I MEAN WE&apos;RE PLANNING
ABOUT LIKE WHAT THEY THIS IS
FOR THE FUTURE.
REALLY I MEAN WE&apos;RE PLANNING
THESE ARE THE PEOPLE THAT WE
FOR THE FUTURE.
HOPE CAN LIVE HERE, THE PEOPLE
THESE ARE THE PEOPLE THAT WE
THEY GREW UP HERE THAT ACTUALLY
HOPE CAN LIVE HERE, THE PEOPLE
COULD HAVE A CHANCE TO LIVE
THEY GREW UP HERE THAT ACTUALLY
HERE TOO.
COULD HAVE A CHANCE TO LIVE
SO I&apos;D LIKE TO THINK ABOUT THAT
HERE TOO.
IN A SLIGHTLY BROADER WAY
SO I&apos;D LIKE TO THINK ABOUT THAT
BECAUSE I THINK THEY ARE VERY
IN A SLIGHTLY BROADER WAY
UNLIKELY TO SHOW UP TO OUR
BECAUSE I THINK THEY ARE VERY
TYPICAL MEETINGS AND I THINK
UNLIKELY TO SHOW UP TO OUR
THAT THEY DO HAVE AN IMPORTANT
TYPICAL MEETINGS AND I THINK
VOICE.
THAT THEY DO HAVE AN IMPORTANT
SO I GUESS I WOULD JUST ADD
VOICE.
THAT IN TERMS OF HOW TO THINK
SO I GUESS I WOULD JUST ADD
ABOUT ENGAGEMENT AS WELL WITHIN
THAT IN TERMS OF HOW TO THINK
THIS THAT I THINK THERE ARE
ABOUT ENGAGEMENT AS WELL WITHIN
LOTS OF PLACES WHERE WHERE KIDS
THIS THAT I THINK THERE ARE
AND STUDENTS ARE CORRALLED
LOTS OF PLACES WHERE WHERE KIDS
WHERE WE COULD ACTUALLY GET
AND STUDENTS ARE CORRALLED
THEIR FEEDBACK OR NOT ASK THEM
WHERE WE COULD ACTUALLY GET
TO SHOW UP TO AN EVENING
THEIR FEEDBACK OR NOT ASK THEM
MEETING OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
TO SHOW UP TO AN EVENING
AND I THINK THAT THERE&apos;S A LOT
MEETING OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
OF THINGS THAT THEY HAVE A
AND I THINK THAT THERE&apos;S A LOT
STAKE WITH THIS.
OF THINGS THAT THEY HAVE A
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M SURE THEY&apos;RE AT LEAST
STAKE WITH THIS.
WATCHING MOM ON TV.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M SURE THEY&apos;RE AT LEAST
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I DON&apos;T KNOW.
WATCHING MOM ON TV.
YEAH, RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I DON&apos;T KNOW.
YEAH,
RIGHT.
SO WHAT I JUST WANTED TO JUST
SORT OF REFLECT BACK WHAT I&apos;M
HEARING.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THE COMMISSION
IS OF A SIMILAR MIND AS I
PROBABLY A GOOD STARTING POINT
IS A SIMILAR RFP AS WE DID
BEFORE.
I&apos;M GOING TO MAKE SOME
ADJUSTMENTS BASED ON SOME
OF THE COMMENTS THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT.
I WOULD SAY THE NEXT TIME THAT
THIS FULL GROUP MIGHT SEE IT IS
AFTER STAFF HAS GONE THROUGH IT
AND SUBCU THE PLANNING
SUBCOMMITTEE HAS GONE THROUGH
IT.
SO I&apos;M NOT GOING TO COMMIT TO A
TIME YET BUT I DO WANT TO GET
MOVING ON IT.
IT&apos;S PERFECT TIMING WITH OUR
BYLAWS NOW IF THAT COUNCIL
BUDGET HOLDS I DO THINK THAT
WE&apos;RE IN GOOD SHAPE TO MAKE
SOME PROGRESS.
IF ANYTHING I WOULD SAY THAT
I&apos;M A LITTLE WORRIED ABOUT COST
BASED ON THIS BUDGET ITEM AND
WHAT OUR LAST COST WAS BUT I
STILL FEEL REALLY FORTUNATE
THAT SO FAR THAT AND I THINK
THE ADMINISTRATOR AS WAS NOTED,
HE&apos;S HE&apos;S VERY COMMITTED TO
HAVING THIS CONVERSATION TO THE
EXTENT WE CAN SO OK, THANK YOU
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE ON TO ITEM TEN WHICH IS
OTHER BUSINESS.
SO THIS IS THE TWENTY TWENTY
TWO TWENTY THREE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AND STAFF WORK
PROGRAM RECOMMENDATION AND THE
RECOMMENDATION IS POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; SO UM LET&apos;S RUN IT.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU WANT TO.
YEAH.
SO AS YOU&apos;LL RECALL FROM THE
MEMO SO THIS IS A FREQUENT
FLIER ON YOUR AGENDAS BUT THE
LAST MEETING
THIS MEETING AND
THEN IT WILL BE PRESENTED TO
THE COMMISSION FOR HOPEFUL
ADOPTION THE NEXT MEETING.
SO AFTER THE PUBLIC HEARING WE
JUST HELD AFTER THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE PLAN,
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU
TO SAY I LIKE THIS.
I DON&apos;T LIKE IT.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO WE SHOULD
PRIORITIZE THINGS SINCE YOU&apos;VE
LESS SINCE YOU LAST SAW THIS, I
THINK I MADE THE THE CHANGES
THAT WERE DISCUSSED.
LET ME JUST HIGHLIGHT THEM.
&gt;&gt; I DID.
AND YOU I THINK YOU THERE WAS
AT LEAST ONE COMMUNICATION ON
THIS.
I PULLED OUT THE NEXT STEPS MY
MILESTONES AS PART OF THIS THIS
IS AN ANNUAL WORK PLAN.
WE CAN ALWAYS PUT IT BACK IN IF
DESIRED.
I ADDED WHAT I THOUGHT AND
THANKS TO COMMISSIONER SILVER
AND MILLS WHO I SORT OF BOUNCED
SOME JUST JUST SOME DRAFTS OFF
OF THERE WAS A CONVERSATION
ABOUT WHY ARE WE DOING SOME
OF THESE THINGS?
WHAT IS THE IMPETUS FOR THIS
WHERE THEY REFERENCE IN OUR
PLANNING DOCUMENTS?
SO IN THE TOP STANZA YOU&apos;RE
SEEING MORE SORT OF REGULATORY
FRAMEWORKS AND THEN IN THE
BOTTOM IS OUR PLANNING
FRAMEWORK I PUT DOWN JUST A
VERY SIMPLISTIC REFERENCE TO
WHERE YOU WOULD FIND THE
APPLICABLE LANGUAGE IN THOSE
DOCUMENTS AS IT RELATES TO
THOSE STANDARDS.
&gt;&gt; I DID INCLUDE THE TWO ZERO
PLAN ON HERE.
I ALSO INCLUDE APPLICANT
PETITIONS, THINGS THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HAS
PROPOSED AND THINGS THAT STAFF
HAVE PROPOSED IN ADDITION TO
THE LAND USE PLANNING FRAMEWORK
I MOVED PARKING MAXIMUMS AND
ADDED SOLAR ENERGY READINESS TO
TWENTY TWO TO THIS YEAR
AS WAS
AS WAS DISCUSSED.
ANOTHER ITEM THAT WAS DISCUSSED
WAS MIXED USE NEIGHBORHOODS
TWENTY MINUTE NEIGHBORHOODS
PROVIDING OTHER TYPES OF USES
IN PERHAPS RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS TO REDUCE TRIPS
THAT HAS BEEN ADDED TO TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MISSING MIDDLE OUR
FORESE AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
INFILL HAS ALSO BEEN ADDED TO
TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
OTHER THAN THAT YOU&apos;LL STILL
SEE THE T ONE BY CORRIDOR BY
YEAR YOU&apos;LL STILL SEE THE
LAUNDRY LIST OF SORT OF THINGS
WE MIGHT GET TO IN THE FUTURE.
AGAIN THIS IS JUST ANOTHER
TOUCH POINT.
HOPEFULLY IT&apos;S GETTING CLOSER
TO WHAT&apos;S COMFORTABLE FOR THE
COMMISSION THIS TWENTY TWENTY
TWO IS A LITTLE INTIMIDATING TO
ME BUT JUST TO BE CLEAR I&apos;M
HAPPY TO SHOOT FOR THE MOON AND
WE&apos;LL SEE WHAT WE CAN GET DONE
.
ANY DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER SILVER, THANK
YOU FOR ADDING THAT IF YOU WANT
TO LOOK AT IT WITH THOSE
REFERENCES I LIKE IN TERMS
OF THE WORK PLAN FOR TWENTY
TWENTY TWO AND JUST A PREVIOUS
DISCUSSION THE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN RECOMMENDS PARKING
MAXIMUMS IN TRANSIT CORRIDORS
WHICH WE&apos;VE DONE.
&gt;&gt; YOU WILL RECONSIDER THEM AT
NEXT MEETING.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO I GUESS I JUST
CLARIFICATION ON LIKE IN
ADDITION TO THAT FOR ME I&apos;LL
JUST KIND OF VOICE THAT I I DO
NOT SEE PARKING MAXIMUMS IS A
PRIORITY TO PRESSURE THE WORK
PLAN INSTEAD OF BEING
THOUGHTFUL OF THE OTHER AGENDA
ITEMS WHEN THE PARKING MAXIMUM
GOALS I FEEL LIKE HAVE BEEN MET
TO THE EXTENT OF BEING WITHIN
THOSE DISTRICTS THEY&apos;RE NOT
RECOMMENDED TO BE APPLIED TO
ALL DISTRICTS AT THIS POINT.
SO I&apos;LL JUST SAY THAT LIKE
OF OF THINGS AND PRIORITIES
THAT WOULD BE ONE THAT I WOULD
BE HAPPY TO DROP TO TWENTY
TWENTY THREE IF NOT JUST WATCH
THE MARKET AND RESPOND AND HAVE
IT BE A KIND OF A LIVING THING
SO I THINK LIKE WHAT YOU DID
WAS ACTUALLY REALLY, REALLY
HELPFUL TO BE ABLE TO SEE AND
PINPOINT EXACTLY WHAT THE
LANGUAGE SAID ABOUT PARKING
MAXIMUMS AND DECIDE AT LEAST
FOR ME THAT IT ISN&apos;T KIND OF A
NECESSARY EFFORT AT THIS TIME.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS
I WOULD
ENVISION BY THE NEXT MEETING?
I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MUCH I WILL
HAVE BUT TO THE EXTENT I HAVE A
BETTER SENSE OF TIMEFRAME FOR
THE PLANNING PROCESS I MIGHT
REFLECT SOME OF THAT IN THERE.
BUT I I AS A CAVEAT I DON&apos;T
ENVISION THAT AT THAT TIME
THOSE TIMELINES HAVE TO BE IN
HERE.
I REALLY ENVISION THIS TO BE
OUR THIS IS THE BIG THING THAT
GOES ON THE BULLETIN BOARD.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF WORK THAT
HAPPENS WITH EACH ONE OF THESE
THAT WE CAN TALK ABOUT TIME
FRAMES AND I&apos;M HAPPY TO DEVELOP
OTHER PRODUCTS.
SO JUST OVER THE COMING WEEKS
BEFORE THAT ADOPTION, IF IT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT YOU FEEL IS
IMPORTANT TO INCORPORATE, WE
CAN LOOK AT IT.
BUT I REALLY WANTED TO START
WITH A THE LIST AND JUST KEEP
US HOPEFULLY DISCIPLINED ON
THESE THINGS.
THE OTHER CHALLENGING THING
WILL BE IF THINGS COME UP FOR
SOME REASON COUNCIL ASKS US TO
LOOK AT SOMETHING IN THE PAST
WE&apos;VE SORT OF PUT A PLACEHOLDER
FOR THAT THERE BUT THAT HASN&apos;T
HAPPENED WITH THE SAME
FREQUENCY OVER THE LAST YEAR
THAT IT PROBABLY DID THE PRIOR
COUPLE OF YEARS.
SO I&apos;M OK WITH IT.
HOW IS COMMISSIONER SO LOOKING
AT THE WORK PLAN IN PARTICULAR
THE DELTA CHANGES AM I IT&apos;S MY
UNDERSTANDING CORRECT THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW
PROCESS WON&apos;T TOUCH THE UDC.
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
SO IS IN TERMS OF THIS LEAD
OF THE CHANGES IN UDC ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT I WAS HOPING
FOR WAS SORT OF SOME
CONSOLIDATIONS OF OVERLAPS IN
SOME OF THE ZONING.
DOES THIS INCORPORATE THAT OR
IS IT BEING KICKED OUT
SEPARATELY AS LIKE THE R FOR C
AT THE BOTTOM OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AND THEN INTO TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR.
&gt;&gt; SO THE IDEA WOULD BE WE
WOULD LIKE TAKE A MEETING AND
EVERYONE BRINGS THE THING THEY
WANT TO GET RID OF IN THE UDC
AND THEN WE WE HASH IT OUT PUT
IT ON A BOARD AND THEN WE COME
TO SOME CONSENSUS AND THEN WE
VOTE THINGS OUT OF THE UDC OR
IS YOUR PLAN STAFF GOING TO
BRING RECOMMENDATIONS TO
PLANNING AS ALEXIS HAS ALREADY
DONE AND THEN WE SAY YES OR NO
TO THOSE TYPES OF THINGS SO IT
CAN HAPPEN EITHER WAY.
&gt;&gt; I DID IF I COULD.
HOW ARE YOU IMAGINING IT IN THE
WORK PLAN?
SO RIGHT NOW IN THIS WORK
PROGRAM I&apos;M NOT IMAGINING A LOT
OF CAPACITY FOR ADDING NEW
THINGS.
SO IF YOU IF LIKE IF IF THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS DESIROUS TO SAY
THAT THERE MIGHT BE THINGS THAT
ARE NOT REFLECTED ON THIS LIST
THAT WE WOULD LIKE THAT YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO TACKLE MORE QUICKLY IN
THAT CASE I WOULD SUGGEST WE
DEFINE AND NAME IT AND WE ADD
IT TO THIS YEAR AND THEN WE
MOVE SOMETHING ELSE OFF, MAYBE
ITS PARKING MAXIMUMS.
MAYBE IT&apos;S SOMETHING ELSE OR
MOVE SOMETHING BACK.
I GUESS I&apos;M BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
WANT TO BE OUT OF LINE.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS TO SAY THIS IS LAW.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS EXACTLY THE PROCESS.
YOU&apos;RE NOT OUT OF LINE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT I&apos;M NOT OUT
OF LINE IN THIS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION BUT WHEN I START
DIRECTING STAFF WORK THAT&apos;S
WHERE I FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S OUT
OF LINE.
SO IF IF IF THE IDEA WAS HEY,
I&apos;VE LOOKED AT THE UDC WE CAN
GET RID OF LIKE FORTY OF THESE
RESTRICTIONS WHICH WOULD HELP
US WITH LIKE SIZES AND
NONCONFORMING LOTS AND WOULD
ALLOW FOR HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
TO BE REMOVED AND STUFF LIKE
THAT.
I IMAGINE THAT&apos;S GOING TO
GENERATE SOME KIND OF STAFF
WORK AND THEN YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
SAY OK, WE CAN EITHER DO THESE
FORTY THINGS YOU JUST BROUGHT
TO US OR WE CAN DO THE THINGS
THAT ARE ON THE WORK PLAN THAT
I&apos;VE ALREADY CREATED FOR YOU.
SO WHAT I&apos;M ASKING IS GIVEN
THAT YOU&apos;RE THE PERSON WHO
BRINGS THE PLAN TO US AND THAT
WE GIVE YOU FEEDBACK, HOW DID
YOU IMAGINE THAT GOING?
DID YOU DID YOU IMAGINE THAT
BEING A PART OF THIS YEAR&apos;S
WORK PLAN AT ALL?
&gt;&gt; AND SO YOU JUST SAY NO.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, OK, IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT
PART OF THIS WORK PLAN BUT IT
COULD LOOK LIKE ONE OF THE
THINGS WHICH I KNOW YOU&apos;RE
AGREEABLE AND I APPRECIATE THAT
BUT BUT I WANT TO BE CLEAR.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT&apos;S WHY THIS IS
HERE THIS IT IS FOR YOU TO
DIRECT MY WORK AND SO IT IS FOR
YOU TO TELL ME OF THESE THINGS
WHICH ARE THE THINGS THAT ARE
MOST IMPORTANT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND IF AND I WOULD
SAY THAT LIKE IT DEPENDS IF YOU
WANT TO ELIMINATE IF THAT
CONVERSATION IS LET&apos;S ELIMINATE
LOT SIZES AND ALL DIMENSION
REQUIREMENTS AND ALL DISTRICTS,
THAT&apos;S A BIG CONVERSATION.
SURE.
THAT I&apos;D PROBABLY SAY LIKE WE
PROBABLY NEED TO MOVE THREE OR
FOUR OF THESE THINGS OFF AT
LEAST TO HAVE THAT CONVERSATION
IF WE HAVE THAT CONVERSATION,
IT&apos;S MORE FOCUSED.
IT MIGHT IT MIGHT BE ONE IF
THAT&apos;S IT.
BUT IF THAT&apos;S A CONVERSATION, I
THINK THAT&apos;S MY POINT IS LET&apos;S
NAME IT LET&apos;S COMMIT THE
RESOURCES TO HAVING THAT
CONVERSATION TO SEE WHAT THAT
LOOKS LIKE OR JUST PLACEHOLDER
THERE.
AND EVEN IF WE HAVE TO LIMIT
IT, EVEN IF THAT LIST IS THIRTY
AND I SAY LET&apos;S START WITH
THESE FIVE SURE.
THAT&apos;S AT LEAST THAT&apos;S AT LEAST
PRIORITIZING THAT CONVERSATION
IN THE CONTEXT OF ALL THESE
OTHER THINGS THAT THE
COMMISSION HAS ALREADY TALKED
ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO I THINK IN MY MIND I WAS
WAITING FOR THE INVITATION
OF THE REVIEW OF THE UDC FOR
THINGS WE COULD JUST
CONSOLIDATE AND IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
LIKE THAT&apos;S ON THE HORIZON
EXPLICITLY.
YEAH, IT&apos;S BEING PICKED UP IN
THE R FOR C CONVERSATION.
IT&apos;S BEING PICKED UP IN THE
MISSING MIDDLE.
IT&apos;S BEING PICKED UP IN THINGS
THAT ALEXIS IDENTIFIES AND
BRINGS TO US.
BUT THERE&apos;S NOT A BLANKET
CONVERSATION WHERE WE LOOK AT
THE UDC AND WE SAY THERE&apos;S A
LOT IN HERE THAT DOESN&apos;T REALLY
NEED TO BE IN HERE.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, LIKE I DIDN&apos;T KNOW
THAT IN THE UDC IS THE
RESTRICTION OF UNRELATED PEOPLE
INSIDE THE LIVING THING.
THAT WAS SURPRISING TO ME
BECAUSE I JUST READ ABOUT THAT
IN KANSAS AND I WAS LIKE I
THOUGHT WE GOT RID OF THAT BUT
NO, IT&apos;S RIGHT THERE FOR
UNRELATED PEOPLE CAN&apos;T LIVE
TOGETHER.
BEISTE CATSUIT AND I&apos;M LIKE WHY
IS THAT IN THERE?
I MEAN I KNOW WHY BUT WHY IS IT
STILL IN THERE?
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S THE KIND OF THING
AND AND THERE&apos;S NO ON UNLESS WE
BRING IT THROUGH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION BUSINESS AT THE END
OF THE AGENDA THEN IT&apos;S A
SURPRISE TO EVERYBODY.
THERE IS NO REAL CONVERSATION
TO TACK IT ON TO SOMETHING AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M I&apos;M REALLY
ASKING IS WHAT&apos;S THE PROCESS
FOR US TO HAVE THAT LEVEL
OF CONVERSATION BECAUSE WE&apos;VE
IDENTIFIED HEY, THIS SHOULDN&apos;T
BE HERE BUT THERE&apos;S NOT A CLEAR
PATH FOR HOW ARE WE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT IT?
WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS?
WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR STAFF
TIME?
AND SO THEN IT JUST SITS AND
THEN YOU JUST BRING IT UP LIKE
I AM NOW AND EVERYONE&apos;S LOOKING
AND THEY&apos;RE LIKE YEAH, WHAT ARE
WE GOING TO TALK ABOUT THAT?
DO YOU HAVE SOMETHING?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WE HAD LIKE
UNREASONING I THINK IT WAS
CALLED RIGHT.
WHICH WAS THIS KIND OF A LITTLE
MAYBE BRAINSTORMING SEGMENT
THAT GOT A LITTLE LOST IS I&apos;M
ASSUMING THAT&apos;S KIND OF WHAT
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO GO BACK TO.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN KIND OF WHERE
THAT WENT OR LIKE HOW THAT
LOGIC MIGHT FALL INTO SOMETHING
?
YEAH, SO A COUPLE OF THINGS
IT&apos;S NOT ON HERE.
IT WAS SOMETHING THAT I THREW I
GUESS I DIDN&apos;T HEAR A LOT
OF MOMENTUM TOWARDS IT.
I THINK PART OF IT IS ALSO I
THINK SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
COMMISSIONER WHITE JUST TALKING
ABOUT AND ZONING THERE ARE
THERE ASPECTS OF THAT
CONVERSATION THAT WE COULD
UNDERTAKE TODAY?
WE COULD CLEAR THE DECK AND
DEDICATE OUR NEXT WORKING
SESSION TO LET&apos;S JUST START
WHAT&apos;S EVERYBODY&apos;S WISH LIST
FOR THE UDC AND THEN SOME
OF THAT I THINK WOULD BE SORTED
IN THE CONTEXT OF WHAT OUR
PLANS SUPPORT IN THAT REGARD
AND WHAT ARE OUR PLANS NOT
SUPPORT IN THAT REGARD.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK SOME OF THAT CAN
HAPPEN THROUGH THIS PLANNING
PROCESS THAT WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT WHEN WE UNDERTAKE THAT
PLANNING PROCESS.
WHAT DO WE WANT THAT TO SAY
ABOUT OUR DEFINITION OF FAMILY?
WHAT DO WE WANT IT TO SAY ABOUT
LOT SIZES ACROSS THE CITY?
&gt;&gt; WHAT DO WE WANT IT TO SAY
ABOUT HEIGHT SO THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF WAYS TOWARDS IT AND I I
THINK IN A WAY THE BROADER IT
GETS IN THE MORE COMPREHENDS
ACROSS ALL OF OUR LAND THAT&apos;S
THE RIGHT PLACE FOR IT.
THAT&apos;S NOT TO SAY THAT WE HAVE
THAT CONVERSATION AND THERE
MIGHT BE SOME REALLY MORE
POINTED NARROW THINGS THAT ARE
CLEARLY SUPPORTED BY THE YEARS
OF ENGAGEMENT THAT WE&apos;VE
ALREADY COMMENTED THAT ARE
REFLECTED IN OUR CURRENT
PLANNING DOCUMENTS EVEN THOUGH
WE ARE WE MIGHT SUGGEST THAT
YES, IT&apos;S TIME TO UPDATE OUR
PLAN.
IT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT WE
DISREGARD THE POLICY THAT WE
HAVE ON THE BOOKS NOW.
&gt;&gt; SO PART OF THAT CONVERSATION
IS THESE THREE MEETINGS.
&gt;&gt; WHAT ARE YOU NOT SEEING ON
HERE IF IF IF GETTING RID
OF UNRELATED THE DEFINITION
OF FAMILY IS ONE OF THOSE
THINGS THAT&apos;S THE KIND
OF CONVERSATION THAT WE CAN ADD
TO THIS WORK PROGRAM DOESN&apos;T
HAVE TO HAPPEN IN THESE
MEETINGS.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN DEDICATE A TIME TO TO
EXPLORE THAT.
BUT THAT&apos;S PART OF MY INTENTION
IS SORT OF GETTING THIS TO YOU
IN THESE ITERATIONS TO SAY
THERE&apos;S TEN THINGS ON HERE THAT
I DON&apos;T SEE THAT I WOULD LIKE
TO SEE THAT&apos;S UP TO THE WHOLE
COMMISSION TO AGREE THAT THOSE
THINGS ARE IMPORTANT AS OPPOSED
TO JUST ONE COMMISSIONER.
IT&apos;S NOT A LIST OF EVERYBODY&apos;S
WISHES BUT THIS IS ABSOLUTELY
THE TIME TO TO DO THAT.
AND IF AND I CAN WORK TO SORT
OF PUT TOGETHER THAT
CONVERSATION IF YOU FEEL LIKE
THAT HASN&apos;T BEEN PROVIDED
ADEQUATELY, I THINK THE THING
THAT I&apos;M STRUGGLING WITH IS THE
THE LAND USE THROUGH THE
THROUGH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVIEW OVERLAPS BUT DOESN&apos;T
DIRECTLY ADDRESS.
SO LIKE THE SET BACKS IS IN THE
UDC IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE IN THE
LAND USE BUT HOW WE USE THE
LAND IS RELATE IT TO HOW WE
PLACE STRUCTURES ON THE LOTS
AND I JUST DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE TO
GET INTO THAT BECAUSE WHERE WE
GET INTO IT IS WHEN SOMEONE
COMES AND SAYS LIKE JENNIFER
HALL DID AND SAID YOU KNOW,
WE&apos;RE GOING TO BUILD THIS
STRUCTURE HERE AND WE SEE THE
SET BACK AND WE&apos;RE LIKE WELL
WHY ARE YOU NOT MAXIMIZING THIS
LAND AND COMING CLOSER TO THE
SIDEWALK BECAUSE THIS DOESN&apos;T
NEED A THIRTY FIVE FOOT
SETBACK.
AND SO THEN IT&apos;S IT FEELS LIKE
IT&apos;S INCREMENTAL WHEREAS WE HAD
THAT CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT
ONE LOT AND WE&apos;RE LIKE WELL IF
WE JUST CHANGE IT BY FIVE FEET
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO GET MORE
IN AND YOU SORT OF LOOKED AT
THE PLOTS AND ALEXIS WEIGHED IN
AND ALL OF THAT AND SO IT&apos;S
JUST I JUST DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE TO
BRING THAT SO YOU&apos;RE SAYING
LET&apos;S DEDICATED A WORKING
SECTION TO UN ZONING THEN IT
WOULD JUST BE HELPFUL TO KNOW
WHEN WE CAN DO THAT BE FIGURE
OUT IF THERE&apos;S SOME INTERFACE
WITH STAFF SO THAT I CAN ASK
THE QUESTION BEFORE THE MEETING
ABOUT LIKE HEY, IF I PROPOSE A
CHANGE TO SET BACK FROM THIRTY
FIVE TO TWELVE, WHAT&apos;S THAT
GOING TO DO ACROSS THE CITY YOU
KNOW IN TERMS OF LOTS SO THAT
WE DON&apos;T HAVE THAT ARGUMENT NOT
THE ARGUMENT BUT THAT
DISCUSSION WHERE YOU COULD SAY
WELL LET&apos;S LOOK AT THE ORIGINAL
PLOT THINGS AND HOW THAT ALL
PLAYS ITSELF OUT SO SO THAT&apos;S
ALL BECAUSE I JUST DON&apos;T WANT
TO FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S COMING OUT
OF LEFT FIELD AND YOU&apos;VE GOT
THIS WORK PLAN AND YOU&apos;RE LIKE
GOSH, WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE GETTING CLOSE
BUT WE KEEP GETTING TRIPPED UP
ON THESE SMALL PLACES.
SO I LIKE YOUR IDEA OF LET&apos;S
HAVE A UNPLANTED WORKING
SESSION WHERE WE ALL LIKE PICK
FIVE THINGS IN THE UDC WE WANT
TO SEE GO WE JUST BRING THEM
AND LIKE SURVIVOR JUST VOTE
THEM OUT OF THE UDC.
&gt;&gt; EXACTLY BECAUSE I JUST SAY I
THINK THERE&apos;S SOME THINGS ABOUT
THAT I&apos;M LEARNING ABOUT OUR
LAND USE THAT RESTRICTS CERTAIN
THINGS AND I EVEN ASKED YOU THE
QUESTION ABOUT SET BACK AND IT
WAS LIKE WHERE IS IT?
AND YOU&apos;RE LIKE IT&apos;S AT THE
PROPERTY LINE AND I&apos;M LIKE OK
BUT HERE ARE THREE THINGS.
TELL ME EXACTLY WHERE THIS
BECOMES AN ISSUE AND THEN WE
HAVE ALL THOSE NONCONFORMING
UNITS OR USES THROUGHOUT THE
CITY AND SO IT&apos;S LIKE HOW DO WE
JUST SORT OF YOU KNOW, I THINK
WAS JANE HENRY&apos;S COMMENT
TONIGHT THAT JUST SORT OF SAID
SOMETHING ABOUT THAT TO JUST
SAY LIKE HOW DO WE JUST SKIP IT
IN THE CODE AND JUST SAY WE&apos;RE
JUST GOING TO ACCEPT THIS AS A
NEW NONCONFORMING DISTRICT AS
OPPOSED TO TRYING TO DO IT
INCREMENTALLY.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S ALL AND THE ONLY
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION BECAUSE OF THE
OPEN MEETINGS ACT AND HOW WE
CAN USE EMAIL LISTS HERE AT THE
TABLE AND THEN OUR MEETING IS
AT ELEVEN AND EVERYONE&apos;S LIKE
OH FUN CONVERSATION BUT I WOULD
LIKE TO GO TO BED AND I JUST
WANT TO AVOID THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH SO I VOTE NOT THAT
IT MATTERS FOR A AN UNSWORN
EATING YOU KNOW SORT
OF CONVERSATION AND I&apos;D LOVE TO
HEAR WITH THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS&apos; THINK ABOUT THAT
.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER ABRAM&apos;S I
REALLY LIKE THAT IDEA.
I ALSO THINK THAT WE OFTEN HAVE
SMALL SMALL BITES ON OUR AGENDA
LIKE COTTAGE FOOD INDUSTRY
UPDATE UPDATE OR I&apos;M DRAWING A
BLANK BUT I THINK BETWEEN US WE
COULD ALL REMEMBER KIND
OF SMALLER ITEMS.
SO I THINK IN THE WORKPLAN
SOMETHING LIKE DRIVETHROUGH OR
I THINK THERE CAN BE LIKE MAYBE
WE COULD HAVE A WORKING SESSION
TO KIND OF GENERATE A BUNCH
OF IDEAS BUT WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO
TAKE THEM ALL ON AT ONCE AND WE
COULD IDENTIFY ONES THAT ARE A
LITTLE NIBBLES OR SMALLER BITES
AND SOMETIMES THOSE SMALL BITES
BALLOON AND THEY END UP TAKING
NINE MONTHS BUT SOMETIMES WE
ARE ABLE TO BE QUITE EFFICIENT
AND DO THINGS WITHIN A COUPLE
OF MEETINGS AND ADDING TWENTY
MINUTES TO EACH MEETING OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT IT DOESN&apos;T
HAVE TO BE SO MAYBE WE COULD
TRY TO TACKLE IT THAT WAY LIKE
MAYBE THERE&apos;S A KIND OF I DON&apos;T
KNOW WHAT YOU CALL IN THE WORK
PLAN BUT THERE&apos;S AN ALLOWANCE
LET&apos;S SAY THAT WE HOLD FOR KIND
OF SMALLER SCALE ITEMS AND THE
WORK PLAN REALLY OUTLINES MUCH
BIGGER THE KIND OF BIGGER
THINGS WE KNOW WE&apos;RE GOING TO
TAKE MONTHS, MONTHS OF WORK.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER, JUST I LIKE
THIS IDEA OF AN UNSETTLING
CONVERSATION AS OFTEN WHEN
THERE&apos;S A POTLUCK OR EVEN A
REVERSE POTLUCK, I&apos;M A LITTLE
DAUNTED THAT MY OFFERING MAY
NOT BE VERY GOOD BECAUSE THE
IDEA OF READING THROUGH THE UDC
AND FIGURING OUT WHAT THAT
FEELS LIKE MORE THAN A
WEEKEND&apos;S HOMEWORK.
&gt;&gt; BUT IT DOES SEEM TO ME THAT
A NUMBER OF THINGS HAVE COME
UP.
SO I KNOW THAT DURING THE
DISCUSSION OF ADIEUS TWO YEARS
AGO THAT RESTRICTION ON THE
NUMBER OF UNRELATED PEOPLE THAT
CAN LIVE IN A PLACE BECAUSE WE
HAD TO THINK ABOUT IT IN TERMS
OF THE 82 AND THE MAIN HOUSE.
SO THAT HAS COME UP AND THERE
SEEMS TO BE AN APPETITE TO
THINK ABOUT WHAT PURPOSE THAT
IS SERVING AND WHAT SORTS
OF NORMATIVE HOUSEHOLD FORMS IT
IS ENFORCING.
AND SO THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT I THINK WE&apos;VE ALREADY
TALKED ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; IT SEEMS LIKE THERE ARE
PROBABLY OTHER THINGS LIKE THAT
THAT WE THAT HAVE COME UP
BEFORE THAT WE MIGHT WANT TO
VISIT IN A SYSTEMATIC WAY.
&gt;&gt; AND LIKE YOU SAID,
COMMISSIONER, GETTING SOME
STAFF FEEDBACK SO THAT YOU KNOW
WHAT LOOKS RIDICULOUS TO US.
OH, BUT THINK OF THIS OH SO AND
IT&apos;S FINE FOR THAT TO HAPPEN AT
THE SESSION OR IN NOTES
BEFOREHAND THE WAY THE STAFF
GIVES COUNCIL STAFF RESPONSES
SO WE SAVE EMBARRASSMENT.
WE COULD YOU KNOW, WE COULD DO
THAT KIND OF FORMAT.
BUT IF ANYONE ELSE CAN THINK
OF ONES THAT WE HAVE SPOKEN
ABOUT BEFORE AND I DON&apos;T KNOW
CAN WE TALK ABOUT SETBACKS
GENERALLY I KNOW THAT WE HAVE
SPOKEN ABOUT THEM WITH RESPECT
TO PARTICULAR ZONING DISTRICTS
BECAUSE WE THAT&apos;S WHAT WE DID
WITH WHAT WE DID WHEN WE JUST
DID THE GREAT R A REVISION.
WE SPECIFICALLY LOOKED AT IT
WAS A SETBACK BUT IT WAS LOT
SIZES.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO YEAH, I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THERE
ARE ARE THERE OTHER THINGS THAT
HAVE COME UP MORE OR LESS
REPEATEDLY THAT ARE IN THE UDC
THAT WE WOULD WANT TO COME TO
IN A STRUCTURED WAY AND REALLY
THINK IF WE WANT TO TACKLE
RATHER THAN KEEPING ON PUTTING
UP AGAINST THEM AND IN FEELING
,YOU KNOW, VAGUELY ANNOYED OR
CONFUSED BY WHAT THEY ARE
DOING, THEY&apos;RE I GUESS I WOULD
ADD ONE OTHER THING TOO AND
THAT IS LIKE WHAT MAKES SENSE
TO HAVE DOES IT MAKE SENSE TO
HAVE THAT DISCUSSION AS PART
OF OUR OWN DISCUSSION AND OR IS
IT BETTER AS PART OF THE WHOLE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PIECE TO SO
THAT THAT&apos;S THERE I&apos;M A LITTLE
CONFUSED BY FRANKLY ABOUT SORT
OF HOW THOSE THINGS OVERLAP AND
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANY
WISDOM ON THAT.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I THINK I THINK
COMMISSIONER WHITE WAS STARTING
OFF WITH THIS THE PLANNING
PROCESS AT THE CONCLUSION OF A
PLANNING THIS PLANNING PROCESS
IDEALLY FROM MYLAN&apos;S IT HAS
THERE&apos;S THREE PAGES WITH TABLES
AT THE END AND IT SAYS YEAR ONE
THE CITY SHOULD UPDATE ITS LOT
SIZE REQUIREMENTS AND ITS SET
BACK REQUIREMENTS AND IT SHOULD
LOOK AT USES AND THE R-1
DISTRICTS HERE TOO.
IT SHOULD EVALUATE CHANGES TO
ITS NATURAL FEATURES ORDINANCES
IN THE FOLLOWING MANNER AND IT
SHOULD CONSIDER CONSOLIDATION
OF COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS FOR
SIMPLICITY AND IT SHOULD REVISE
SHORT TERM RENTALS AND TO
CONSIDER THIS IMPACT YEAR FOUR
FIVE AND IT LAYS OUT THEN
THAT&apos;S THE THE PLAN AS
COMMISSIONER ASKED DOESN&apos;T
CHANGE A SINGLE REGULATION AND
OUR UDC IT DOES RESULT IN A
COMMUNITY VETTED AND BOUGHT IN
PRIORITIZATION OF THOSE CHANGES
THAT WE SHOULD UNDERTAKE TO TO
THE UDC AFTER ADOPTION FOR THE
SAKE OF REALIZING OUR VISION.
I THINK COMMISSIONER WYTCHES
SAYING I DON&apos;T WANT TO WAIT
TILL THAT THERE ARE CHANGES
THAT WE SHOULD TAKE CONCURRENT
TO THAT PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
AND THOSE ARE THOSE ARE THE
CHANGES THAT YOU THAT WE&apos;VE
IDENTIFIED HERE BECAUSE THEY
ARE CURRENTLY REFLECTED IN OUR
PLANS AS WE GO THROUGH THAT
PROCESS.
THAT IS THE CONVERSATION THAT
WE WOULD HAVE.
I WOULD BE FRANTICALLY AT THIS
TABLE TRYING TO SAY I WANT TO
REDUCE THE LOT SIZES IN THE
R-1, BE DISTRICT.
I WOULD BE FRANTICALLY TRYING
TO ANSWER THE QUESTION DOES OUR
PLAN ADDRESS THAT OR NOT?
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS LIKE I SUPPORT ME
WE DIDN&apos;T SAY WHEN IT WAS ON
THE PAGE LOUD ENOUGH BEFORE IT
FELL OFF THE PAGE THE ZONING
BUT I AM KIND OF IMAGINING A
STRUCTURE WHERE THROUGH A
WORKING SESSION BRAINSTORM WE
DISCOVER THINGS THAT MIGHT FALL
INTO THE CHARLIE CATEGORY AND
THEN OTHER THINGS THAT GET
THEIR OWN LINE ITEM LIKE THAT
THERE THERE&apos;S TWO TIERS OF THIS
WORK TO BE DONE AND SOME THINGS
MIGHT BE LESS IMPACTFUL AND
BOTH SINGLE.
&gt;&gt; CORRECT.
AND SO THIS FEELS LIKE A BIGGER
CONVERSATION THAN PARKING
MAXIMUMS BUT I LIKE ZONING
BEFORE PARKING MAXIMUMS AND
THEN AT LEAST WE GET THE FIRST
ROUND OF THINGS OUT TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT NEEDS TO MAP INTO THIS
LIST AND WHAT THEN BECOMES
MAYBE IN THE FUTURE LIST
ROLLING INTO, YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER BUT MINOR CHANGES.
AND SO WHEN IT KIND OF COMES UP
AGAIN AND STAFF TASKS THEY&apos;RE
LIKE OH THERE&apos;S ACTUALLY THIS
ONE HERE.
SO I WOULD SUPPORT THAT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE MAYBE THAT&apos;S THE
NEXT MEETING IF YOU&apos;RE STARTING
TO LOOK AT TIME, LOOK WHAT
ANNUNZIO MEAN WORKING IN
SESSION MIGHT BE AT LEAST TO
KIND OF HAVE DEDICATED
DISCUSSION TO IT TO BUILD THE
FRAMEWORK INSTEAD OF MAKE THE
DECISIONS AT THAT ONE TO START
DOING THE ORDINANCE WORK JUST
FOR A REFERENCE POINT OVER THE
LAST TEN YEARS THE CITY HAS ON
AVERAGE ADOPTED FOR UDC
AMENDMENTS PER YEAR
.
&gt;&gt; HOW MANY IF WE ADOPTED SO
FAR IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT YEAH I MEAN I
HAVEN&apos;T DONE THAT DATA SO IT&apos;S
YOU&apos;VE BEEN INCREASING OVER THE
LAST FIVE YEARS.
WE&apos;VE AVERAGED SIX AMENDMENTS
PER YEAR JUST FOR A SCALE OF MM
HMM.
THAT&apos;S A PRETTY GOOD THAT&apos;S
THAT TEN YEARS IS DIFFERENT
PLANNING COMMISSIONS DIFFERENT
COUNCILS DIFFERENT PLANNING
DIRECTORS.
YEAH SO I I I REALLY APPRECIATE
THIS PART THE CONVERSATION
BECAUSE FOR ME THAT DISCONNECT
IS BETWEEN THE UDC AND THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT WE&apos;RE
GOING TO CREATE A DOCUMENT THAT
PLANS THE CITY TO TWENTY FIFTY
BUT IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO ACTUALLY
TOUCH THE CODES F F AT THAT
PROCESS AND I THINK THAT&apos;S THE
PIECE WHEN I&apos;M TALKING TO
PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY THAT
THERE&apos;S THAT DISCONNECT OF LIKE
OH HOW ARE WE ACTUALLY GOING TO
DO THE MISSING MIDDLE IF WE
DON&apos;T ACTUALLY CHANGE THE UDC
SO WE CAN SAY WE WANT TO BUILD
THESE SORT OF NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
ARE MORE WALKABLE OR MORE
LIVABLE OR WHERE PEOPLE CAN AGE
IN PLACE BUT THEN IT PUSHES THE
UDC TO HAVE TO CHANGE TO
REFLECT THAT AND THERE&apos;S NOT A
STRAIGHT LINE OR I SHOULDN&apos;T
SAY IT AS DECLARATIVE AS THAT
THERE DOESN&apos;T SEEM TO BE A
STRAIGHT LINE ALL THE WAY FROM
THE LAND USE TO HOW IT&apos;S GOING
TO CHANGE IN THE UDC.
IT FEELS LIKE IT&apos;S GOING TO
HAPPEN BUT IT HAPPENS IN STAGES
.
IT HAPPENS INCREMENTALLY.
PENS ALONG THIS KIND
OF PATH AND AS WE&apos;VE ALREADY
IDENTIFIED, THERE ARE SOME
THINGS THAT I THINK WE&apos;VE
ALREADY NOTED LIKE OH DO WE
REALLY NEED TO HAVE THIS AND IF
WE DO NEED TO HAVE IT IT MAY
INFORM THE CONSULTANTS WORK
AROUND THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND IF IF WE CAN&apos;T ADOPT 15
REVISIONS TO THE UDC BECAUSE
THAT&apos;S UNPRECEDENTED IT WOULD
CAUSE A LOT OF CONCERN FOR
FOLKS WE COULD QUEUE THAT UP TO
THE CONSULTANT TO SAY AS YOU&apos;RE
BUILDING OUT OUR LAND USE,
THESE ARE THE CHANGES WE NEED
TO SEE REFLECT IT IN THE UDC SO
THAT WE CAN ACCOMPLISH THIS
VISION OF AGING IN PLACE, THIS
VISION OF A WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND JUST THE IDEA
OF HAVING YOU IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND LOTEN THERE&apos;S
ALL THESE ROADS BUT THERE&apos;S NOT
ENOUGH SIDEWALKS THAT GET YOU
OUT OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO EVEN IF YOU WANT TO GET OUT
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD YOU HAVE TO
WALK ALL THE WAY UP TO CYO
CHURCH BEFORE YOU CAN GO IN.
IT&apos;S LIKE WHERE DOES THAT COME
INTO THE LAND USE MAP WHERE WE
LIKE CUT THROUGH TO PEOPLE&apos;S
YARDS THAT WE CREATED EASEMENT
AND WE PUT A SIDEWALK THERE SO
THAT THEY COULD GET OUT TO GET
TO MAIN STREET SO THEY CAN GO
TO BUSHES WITHOUT HAVING TO
WALK A HALF A MILE TO GET OUT
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND SO THAT&apos;S THE THOSE ARE THE
KINDS OF THINGS THAT I&apos;M
LOOKING AT AS I BIKE AROUND THE
CITY AS I WALK EVERYDAY THROUGH
THE CITY TO TRY TO SAY LIKE HOW
DO I GET TO MY LIBRARY FROM MY
HOUSE.
RIGHT.
AND HOW DO I CUT OVER AND SO
FORTH.
SO THOSE ARE THE THE SORT
OF ZONING THINGS THAT I WAS
SORT OF TRYING TO TEE UP AND
AND I&apos;M GRATEFUL THAT YOU&apos;RE
OPEN TO THAT.
I THINK MY SPECIFIC QUESTION
WOULD BE LET&apos;S SAY I HAVE A
LIST OF THINGS THREE RIGHT NOW
SHOULD I SEND THAT TO YOU AND
THEN LET YOU FEEDBACK OR DOES
IT GO TO THE WHOLE GROUP
BECAUSE OF OPEN MEETINGS?
&gt;&gt; I JUST DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE
PROTOCOL IS SO YOU CAN SHARE
WITH THE WHOLE COMMISSION OR
YOU CAN SHARE WITH ME AND I&apos;M
GOING TO SHARE IT WITH THE
WHOLE COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; OK, GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO SO I&apos;M NOT
GOING TO BUT TOWARDS THAT END I
ANY RESPONSE I DO TO YOUR
QUESTIONS IS GOING TO GO TO THE
WHOLE COMMISSION WHICH IS FINE
BECAUSE THAT&apos;S WHAT IT HAS TO.
&gt;&gt; BUT I CAN JUST SEND DIRECTLY
TO YOU OK THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I APPRECIATE THIS TIME TO
HAVE THIS CONVERSATION.
JUST DON&apos;T ASK COMMISSIONER
ONLY BECAUSE I NEVER RETURN HIS
CALLS.
COMMISSIONER CLARK, DID I SEE
YOUR HAND UP THIS YOUR HAND UP
OR NO
IS COMMISSIONER SURE.
&gt;&gt; OF COURSE YEAH.
SO THIS IS KIND OF LIKE I DON&apos;T
KNOW WHAT TO CALL IT INFILL
SIDEWALK PROJECTS BECAUSE I
HEARD ABOUT THAT FROM PEOPLE IN
FOXFIRE TOO THAT THEIR
UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT WHEN
FOXFIRE WAS CREATED THERE WERE
CUT THROUGH PROGRAMS BUT THEY
NEVER GOT MADE AND THAT IS NOT
SMALL.
YOU KNOW IF YOU HAVE TO GO ALL
THE WAY UP TO DAVOREN AND THEN
WALK A WHILE WHERE THERE&apos;S NO
SIDEWALK AND THE TRAFFIC IS
GOING 65 AND THEN CUT IN, I
MEAN THAT&apos;S COMING THAT&apos;S NOT
WORKABLE AT ALL.
SO THAT IS A THAT IS A
DIMENSION OF WALKABILITY THAT
THAT I DON&apos;T THINK WE&apos;VE TALKED
ABOUT A LOT AND I REALLY LIKE
THAT.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER CLARK.
&gt;&gt; I HOPE THIS IS OK.
TIME TO MENTION US.
&gt;&gt; SORRY SOMETHING I DIDN&apos;T WE
KIND OF BRIEFLY MENTIONED ABOUT
YOUTH ENGAGEMENT IN THE URBAN
PLANNING A LITTLE BIT BEYOND
THAT.
I JUST WAS CURIOUS IF THERE WAS
SPACE ON THE AGENDA FOR MAKING
MORE ALL AGE FRIENDLY CITIES
AND SUNDERING CHILDREN AND
FAMILIES.
WE&apos;RE ABOUT TO GET A BUNCH
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS AND
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE
SUMED WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
BRINGING IN FAMILIES AND
CHILDREN.
THERE IS A LOT OF NEW MATERIALS
AND RESEARCH ON CITIES AND HOW
THEY CAN PLAN AND ZONE TO BE
MORE CHILD FRIENDLY.
THERE&apos;S WAYS WITH LIKE ZONING,
WITH CHILDCARE, PLACES LIKE
THAT LOOKING WHICH AREAS OF THE
CITY ARE IN-HOME DAYCARE IS
ALLOWED BUT ZONING WHAT THE
SIZE OF THE LOTS THAT WOULD BE
REQUIRED GIVEN THE TIME RIGHT
NOW, YOU KNOW, WITH A SHORTAGE
WE HAVE IN THOSE THINGS AND
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO MAKE A CITY
IT&apos;S FOR ALL STAGES OF LIFE.
I JUST WOULD BE CURIOUS IF
THERE&apos;S ANY SPACE THAT WE COULD
KIND OF SQUEEZE IN NOT ONLY
ENGAGING YOUTH TO DO SO WHICH
IS A GREAT IDEA BUT ALSO
CHILDREN AND YEAH SO
YEAH, I
THINK THAT&apos;S REALLY THAT SEEMS
THAT&apos;S A BETTER ARTICULATION
OF WHAT I WAS TALKING ABOUT
WITH AGING IN PLACE YOU KNOW
THE ORIGINAL RFP ACTUALLY
RECOMMENDED ENROLLMENT IN A
VERY SPECIFIC PROGRAM THROUGH
THE END OR THROUGH THE AARP
CALLED LIVABLE COMMUNITIES AND
IT&apos;S REALLY INTENDED FOR AGING
IN PLACE AND THE PROVISIONS
OF AGING IN PLACE FOR THE
ELDERLY ARE REALLY GOOD FOR
CHILDREN AND THEY&apos;RE REALLY
GOOD FOR EVERYBODY.
SO YEAH, I I THINK IF ANYTHING
ELSE THAT&apos;S A BROADENING
OF THAT DEFINITION AND THAT
FOCUS AREA
.
I ALSO LIKE THE IDEA THOUGH
OF OF JUST BEING WILL THEY HAVE
A SESSION WHERE WE CAN KIND
OF THROW SPAGHETTI AT THE WALL
AND GET YOUR REACTION ABOUT
LIKE WELL THAT YOU KNOW THAT
THAT THAT MAY BE A LITTLE OUT
THERE SOMETHING LIKE THAT
BECAUSE I THINK THAT IT WOULD
BE NICE TO HAVE KIND
OF BRAINSTORMING SESSION THAT
FELT A LITTLE BIT MORE FREE TO
TO BE ABLE TO JUST KIND OF SEE
AND HELP EACH OTHER, YOU KNOW,
JUST GAUGE EACH OTHER&apos;S
REACTIONS TO SOME OF THESE
THINGS TOO AND JUST SEE WHERE
WE LAND AND THEN WE MAY COME
OUT WITH ONE THING OR WE MAY
COME UP WITH FIVE THINGS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT WE NEED
TO VOTE OR PRIORITIZE BUT WE
DON&apos;T OFTEN GET THAT
OPPORTUNITY AND I WE HAVEN&apos;T
DONE IT FOR A LONG TIME BUT
LIKE HAVING THAT WHOLE DAY
WORKSHOP THING, I&apos;M I&apos;VE MISSED
HAVING THAT OPPORTUNITY TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE THAT MORE KIND
OF LOOSE AND OPEN FORMAT AND I
GET THAT WE&apos;RE KIND OF STUCK
WITH THE WORKING SESSION THING
AND THAT&apos;S FINE.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO BE ABLE TO
BRING SOME OF THAT FEELING IN
OF BEING ABLE TO REALLY KIND
OF TALK WITH EACH OTHER TOO
ABOUT IDEAS AND PRIORITIES AND
JUST SAY WELL WHAT IF THIS WERE
WHAT YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S JUST SO
THAT WE CAN WE&apos;RE SEEING A LOT
OF DIFFERENT THINGS HERE AND
TALKING TO A LOT OF PEOPLE AND
EXPERIENCING A LOT OF THINGS
THROUGH OUR OWN PROFESSIONAL
NETWORKS AND EVERYTHING TOO.
AND I JUST THINK IT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO BE ABLE TO HAVE A
SESSION OR TWO WHERE WE COULD
REALLY KIND PICK EACH OTHER&apos;S
BRAINS AND I TOTALLY GET YOUR
NEED TO BE ABLE TO HAVE THESE
AS TAXABLE ITEMS AND MAYBE
WE&apos;LL COME OUT WITH TWO THAT
ARE TAXABLE ITEMS.
BUT IT WOULD BE NICE TO HAVE A
FORMER WHERE WE COULD JUST BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE OPEN WITH EACH
OTHER TO BE ABLE TO, YOU KNOW,
HAVE A CONVERSATION.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I THINK THAT I THINK
THAT CONVERSATION MIGHT BENEFIT
YOUR REVIEW OF AN RFP.
YEAH, AND I WAS THINKING THE
SAME THING THAT MAYBE MAYBE THE
RETREAT FORMAT IS A GOOD PLACE
TO DO THIS.
I&apos;M JUST GOING TO JUMP IN AND
ADD TO LIKE I KNOW YOU CAN&apos;T
LIKE THE RESEARCH BEHIND ALEXIS
IS REALLY GOOD AT EXPLAINING
WHERE THE QUOTES COME FROM BUT
LIKE FOR UNRELATED PERSONS I
CAN BE BECAUSE YOU CAN HAVE A
DOZEN UNRELATED PERSONS LIVING
TOGETHER IN A BASEMENT UNSAFE
CONDITION SORT OF THING.
&gt;&gt; SO LIKE WORST CASE SCENARIO
AND TYPICALLY HISTORIC MOMENT
TIPS THE SCALES TO REQUIRING A
CODE AND YOU CAN&apos;T PULL EVERY
PRECEDENT BUT IT&apos;S HELPFUL
SOMETIMES TO SITUATE WHY CODES
MIGHT BE COUCHED IN HEALTH,
SAFETY AND WELFARE BUT HAVE
OTHER SORT OF IMPACTS TO
OPPORTUNITY USE OF LIVING AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO LIKE I THINK IF WE CAN ALSO
SET THAT CONVERSATION THAT WAY
SO WE CAN MAYBE AS WE I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF IT&apos;S LIKE A TWO PART
THEN THAT WE LIKE RAISE THE
QUESTION OF WHY IS THIS THIS
FEELS AND THEN WE SEND YOU BACK
WITH SOME HOMEWORK TO EXPLAIN
WHY IT IS SO THAT WE FEEL MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH WHAT&apos;S STILL
ON THE BOOKS THAT WE MIGHT NOT
WANT TO PURSUE.
RIGHT.
WE&apos;RE LIKE OH NOW THAT WE
ACTUALLY KNOW IT&apos;S KIND
OF PURPOSE IN IN THE UDC WE
FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE WITH ITS
REASONING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH I AM I&apos;M SENSITIVE
TO THAT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK MY INITIAL THOUGHT
IS I WOULD BRING A BUNCH
OF STAFF AND I WOULD TRY TO
PROVIDE THAT FRAMEWORK OR SORT
OF IN REAL TIME TO THE GREATEST
EXTENT WE CAN AT THE SAME TIME
I SOMETIMES AS MUCH AS I WISH I
WEREN&apos;T THIS WAY SOMETIMES I
THINK ME AND BUREAUCRACIES CAN
BE SORT OF WE SORT
OF GRAVITATED TOWARDS IT&apos;S
ALWAYS BEEN THIS WAY BECAUSE
OF X, Y OR Z.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I DO WONDER ABOUT
WHETHER THERE&apos;S JUST SOME VALUE
IN REALLY JUST FINDING THE
RIGHT LINE BETWEEN TRYING TO
ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS BUT
BEING CLEAR TAKING A STEP BACK
FROM ADVOCATING LIKE FOR
EXAMPLE THE DEFINITION
OF FAMILY HAS A VERY IMPACTFUL
HISTORY ACROSS THE WHOLE STATE
.
OUR DEFINITION OF FAMILY TO MY
UNDERSTANDING IS SORT OF THE
COURT CASE THAT ESTABLISHES A
REASONABLE BALANCE OF BEING
ABLE TO LIMIT THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE THAT CAN OCCUPY A
DWELLING UNIT SO THAT YOU MIGHT
NOT GET UNSAFE IMPACTS.
I AM GUESSING PART OF IT
FRANKLY CAME FROM STUDENT
ENCROACHMENT INTO NEIGHBORHOODS
AS WELL WITHOUT THAT THERE
WOULD BE THE PROVISION TO ANY
HOME WOULD THEN POTENTIALLY
COULD BE OCCUPIED BY A MUCH
HIGHER NUMBER OF PEOPLE BECAUSE
YOU KNOW, GOING FROM LIKE A
FOUR BEDROOM IN OUR FORESE
VERSUS A DEDICATED HOME.
SO I&apos;M GUESSING THERE WAS A LOT
OF PUBLIC POLICY DISCUSSIONS.
IT MAKES ME NERVOUS TO ADDRESS
THAT BECAUSE I KNOW IT&apos;S BEEN
VETTED AND SUPPORTED BY THE
COURTS.
BUT THAT&apos;S AN EXAMPLE WHERE
LIKE I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT&apos;S THE
RIGHT THING FOR THAT
CONVERSATION AND JUST BECAUSE
OF ALL THAT DOESN&apos;T MEAN IT&apos;S
NOT WORTH REVISITING.
SO SO I APPRECIATE THAT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THE ANSWER.
&gt;&gt; I SORT OF FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN US TRYING TO
PROVIDE SOME COLOR COMMENTARY
BUT STILL WRITING IT DOWN TO
SEE WHERE WE GO WITH IT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, YEAH I TOTALLY AGREE.
LIKE IT&apos;S NOT TO JUST LIKE
REMOVE THINGS FROM THE LIST BUT
ALSO IT MIGHT BE MORE ABOUT
DEFINING THE TERMINOLOGY
INSTEAD OF JUST REMOVING THE
LINE ITEM SORT OF THING WHEN WE
UNDERSTAND THE PURPOSE BEHIND
AND ACTUALLY THE THERE&apos;S
PURPOSE AND THERE&apos;S IMPACT
THOSE CAN BE TWO DIFFERENT
THINGS AND TO HAVE THE
CONVERSATION OF WHAT BOTH
OF THOSE ARE MIGHT STEER US IN
A BETTER DIRECTION OF THE WAY
TO CHANGE THAT POLICY.
SO THAT&apos;S REALLY POKING HOLES
IN IT.
YOU KNOW, IN THE BEST IN THE
WORST CASE SCENARIO I THINK IS
THE BEST WAY TO GET GOOD POLICY
AND IT&apos;S FROM SOME OF THE
RESEARCH I DID FOR THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD COMMISSION IN NINETY NINE
YEARS WE&apos;VE GONE FROM SEVEN
PAGES OF REGULATIONS TO LIKE
THREE HUNDRED AND 40 PAGES
OF REGULATIONS.
&gt;&gt; SO WHEN YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
THERE&apos;S A MOMENT IN HISTORY OR
THAT&apos;S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENS,
THERE&apos;S ALL THESE MOMENTS AND
OVER THAT TIME PERIOD WHETHER
IT&apos;S MARIJUANA FACILITIES OR
SHORT TERM RENTALS OR ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES OR YOU NAME IT,
THERE&apos;S THESE MOMENTS OF TIME
WHERE WE SAY HOW DO WE WANT TO
RESPOND TO THIS AND THAT
RESULTS IN THAT DRASTIC
INCREASE IN REGULATIONS ALL
COMING FROM VERY GOOD POLICY
DISCUSSIONS AND THOUGHTFUL
DISCUSSIONS AND DEBATES AT THE
TIME.
BUT COLLECTIVELY THEY CAN HAVE
A BIG WEIGHT ON A ON A SITE AND
TIMES CHANGE TO ANYBODY ELSE.
OK, SO WE ARE AT ITEM ELEVEN
AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION ONE MORE
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ABOUT
ANY ITEM OF INTEREST IF YOU
WISH TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME PREST
NINE IT&apos;S LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RANGE RAISE HAND
FEATURE IF YOU READ THROUGH THE
WEB LINK PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
HER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IS AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO THAT WE
MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
&gt;&gt; FOR ANY SPEAKER PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
NOBODY IS PRESENT HERE.
IS THERE ANYBODY IN LINE?
&gt;&gt; VIRTUALLY THERE IS A REQUEST
FOR YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
&gt;&gt; HI GOOD EVENING.
GREAT DISCUSSION TONIGHT.
I UNFORTUNATELY MISSED PART
OF IT AT THE BEGINNING BUT I
REALLY APPRECIATED THE
CONVERSATION AND I THE FIRST
THING THAT KIND OF STRUCK ME
ABOUT THINKING ABOUT THE FUTURE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
THE RFP AND SO ON WHICH I HOPE
HOPE SOME TIMETABLE&apos;S CAN BE
CAN BE PUT ON ME BECAUSE I
THINK IT&apos;S SUPER IMPORTANT
PROCESS MADE ME WONDER IF FOLKS
THAT HAD THE OPPORTUNITY LOOK
AT THE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
WHICH IS ONE OF THE ELEMENTS
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A PRETTY SHORT
READABLE DOCUMENT AND I&apos;M
CURIOUS TO HEAR FROM FOLKS LIKE
HOW THE FORMAT OF THAT SORT
OF THE BROAD VALUES OF THAT
WOULD DIFFER FROM YOUR IDEAL,
YOU KNOW, COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AT
THE YOU KNOW, AT THE AS A
FINISHED PRODUCT.
SO I&apos;D BE CURIOUS TO TO HEAR
ANY OBSERVATIONS ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; WHAT ELSE STRUCK ME ABOUT
THAT CONVERSATION IS IT SOUNDS
MIGHT BE HELPFUL TO HAVE SOME
CLARITY AROUND WHAT IS AND IS
NOT POSSIBLE OR ADVISOR TO DO
EITHER.
YOU KNOW, BEFORE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
TAKES PLACE, YOU KNOW, NEXT
YEAR OR WHENEVER OR AT THE END
OF THAT WHICH IS GOING TO BE IN
A COUPLE OF YEARS, MY
IMPRESSION HAS ALWAYS BEEN THAT
ANYTHING THAT TOUCHES LIKE R1
OR ARE FOR HAS BEEN ASSUMED
THAT IT&apos;S GOING TO WAIT FOR
THAT PROCESS.
I WISH I WISH I WAS WRONG.
YOU KNOW, THINGS LIKE
ELIMINATING MINIMUM LOT SIZES
OR REDUCING SETBACKS OR
ALLOWING TYPE DENSITY AND
RESIDENTIAL AREAS, YOU KNOW, I
WOULD LOVE FOR THAT TO HAPPEN
QUICKLY BUT YOU KNOW, I JUST IN
AN EFFORT TO PREVENT ANY KIND
OF WHEEL SPINNING WITH SOME
OF THESE WORK SESSIONS, IT
WOULD BE GOOD TO GET SOME CLEAR
GUIDANCE ABOUT WHAT IS AND WHY
IT ISN&apos;T POSSIBLE TO TO MY
KNOWLEDGE THAT, YOU KNOW, THERE
ARE TWO ADJUSTMENTS THAT WERE
MADE HAVE ALREADY BEEN CALLED
OUT AND PLANS THAT WAS SORT
OF ALLOWED FROM THAT STANDPOINT
30 MORE SECONDS WITH REGARD TO
THE WORK PLAN.
I JUST WANT TO I HOPE YOU ALL
WOULD BE ABLE TO READ MY
LENGTHY EMAIL TODAY AT SOME
POINT.
BUT I REALLY WANT TO REINFORCE
THE THE IMPORTANCE OF PARKING
MAXIMUMS.
NEW STUDIES HAVE SHOWN THAT
PARKING MAXIMUMS ARE THREE
TIMES MORE POWERFUL THAN
INCREASING TRANSIT SERVICE.
BASICALLY IF PEOPLE DON&apos;T HAVE
PLACES TO PARK YOU ATTRACT NON
DRIVERS TO LIVE IN YOUR CITY
AND ON PAGE EIGHTY TWO OF THE
EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN IT CALLS FOR
SETTING LOW PARKING MAXIMUMS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY NOT JUST
NOT JUST IN DOWNTOWN OR THAT
THREE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
ANYBODY ELSE?
YES, CALLER WITH THE PHONE I&apos;M
RUNNING WITH FOUR SIX FOUR.
YOU CAN ADJUST THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS LINDA BEROWRA AGAIN.
I APPRECIATED YOU TALK ABOUT
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I&apos;M VERY HAPPY THAT YOU WANT
LOOK OVER THE PREVIOUS RFP AND
SEE IF IT CAN BE REVISED AND
UPDATED AND SEND IT OUT QUICKLY
.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT&apos;S WONDERFUL.
SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND IS NOT A
SMALL AMOUNT OF MONEY AND
HOPEFULLY COUNCIL WILL PASS
THAT AMOUNT FOR THE PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; I DO I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND.
SOUNDS LIKE I DIDN&apos;T THINK THAT
I KNOW THAT THE PREVIOUS
COMMITTEE THAT DESIGN THE
EUROPEAN WAS ACTUALLY IN THE
PROCESS OF GETTING CONSULTANTS.
IT SOUNDED LIKE MICHALINA
DIDN&apos;T THINK THAT WAS A VERY
FRIENDLY PROCESS AND I WONDER
WHY I MEAN IT SEEMS TO ME I
THINK THAT COMMITTEE COMPOSED
OF STAFF AND PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS AND ONE COMMUNITY
REPRESENTATIVES FROM EACH WARD
AND IT SEEMS TO ME THAT THAT
WAS A REALLY GOOD WAY TO DO IT
AND I WOULD HOPE THAT YOU
WOULDN&apos;T JUST EXCLUDE
NEIGHBORHOOD WARD
REPRESENTATIVE WHEN YOU
RESUSCITATE THIS COMMITTEE.
I THINK I HEARD BRET RECOMMEND
YOU KEEP IT JUST TO COUNSEL
JUST SOME SEGMENT OF PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF THAT&apos;S
ABOUT INCLUSION.
I MEAN YOU&apos;RE ALWAYS TALKING
ABOUT EQUITY AND INCLUSION, NOT
INCLUSION.
SO PLEASE RETHINK THAT.
AND THEN I ALSO WANT TO SAY IN
TERMS OF THE ACTUAL PROCESS
OF DESIGNING THE COMMUNITY
INPUT, I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
WHOEVER WAS TALKING ABOUT
GETTING TEENAGERS INVOLVED, I
TOTALLY SUPPORT THAT.
I TOTALLY SUPPORT BEING VERY
PROACTIVE AND GOING OUT INTO
DIFFERENT SEGMENTS OF THE
OF THE COMMUNITY LIKE HIGH
SCHOOLS.
I THINK WE NEED TO BROADEN THE
SCOPE OF THE INPUT TO INCLUDE
ALL AGES VERY IMPORTANT TO
INCLUDE ALL INCOME LEVELS.
ALL NEIGHBORHOODS GO INTO LOW
INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS, YOU KNOW,
AND COMMUNITY HALLS IN THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS OF THE SCHOOLS
YOU KNOW, YOU JUST NEED TO DO
BROAD OUTREACH AND THEN
OF COURSE ALL RACES AND
ETHNICITIES.
SO WE REALLY NEED DIVERSITY
INPUT AND HOPING YOU&apos;RE GOING
TO GO IN THAT DIRECTION.
MY ONLY FINAL POINT IS IT SEEMS
THERE&apos;S QUITE A BIT
OF CONFUSION EVEN AMONG THE
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS AND I
KNOW SOME OF THEM ARE NEW ABOUT
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
CONFERENCE PLAN AND THE UDC.
NOW THERE IS A RELATIONSHIP AND
I THINK IT NEEDS TO BE MADE
VERY CLEAR AND IF MR. LEONARD
CANNOT MAKE THAT CLEAR TO THE
COMMISSIONERS, MAYBE HE CAN
CALL IN A PROFESSIONAL TO MAKE
MAKE THAT RELATIONSHIP A LITTLE
MORE CLEAR FOR ALL THE PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS BECAUSE IT REALLY
IS A KEY THERE.
THERE&apos;S SUPPOSED TO BE A
RELATIONSHIP AND WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE THERE IS A
RELATIONSHIP AND THAT LOOK, THE
TWO OF TWO SEPARATE ENTITIES
WHICH IT SEEMS LIKE THIRTY
PERSONS ARE CONFUSED ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; ANY OTHER CALLERS
, ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ HAVE THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; HI, ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ HERE
FROM THE FOURTH WARD FOURTEENTH
CITY LAS VEGAS DRIVE.
I THINK IT&apos;S A LOT OF GOOD
DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THE
PREVIOUS CALLER LISTED A BUNCH
OF DIFFERENT GROUPS OF PEOPLE.
I THINK IT WOULD BE VALUABLE TO
INCLUDE INPUT FROM RENTERS IN
ANN ARBOR BECAUSE THAT&apos;S A
PRETTY LARGE PORTION OF OUR
RESIDENTS IN THE CITY AND I
THINK WE SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT
THEY&apos;RE INCLUDED IN ANY
DISCUSSIONS THAT WE HAVE ABOUT
LAND USE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL.
OK, ANY COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS IS THAT WHAT WE&apos;VE
BEEN DISCUSSING FOR THE LAST
FORTY FIVE MINUTES ALREADY?
&gt;&gt; AND I THINK WE ARE MOVING ON
TO ITEM THIRTEEN WHICH IS
ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHICH WE ARE
ADJOURNED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
GIVE RANDALL FOR YOUR FINE
LEADERSHIP